The Day Destroys the Night,
Night Extends the Day:
A Clientele Perspective on Equity Premium Variation
Dong Lou, Christopher Polk, and Spyros Skouras∗
This version: November 2022
∗Lou: Department of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A 2AE, UK and CEPR. Email:
d.lou@lse.ac.uk. Polk: Department of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A 2AE, UK
and CEPR. Email: c.polk@lse.ac.uk. Skouras: Athens University of Economics and Business. Email:
skouras@aueb.gr. We thank John Campbell, Dimitri Vayanos, Tuomo Vuolteenaho, and seminar and conference participants at Amsterdam Business School, the Bristol Financial Markets Conference, the London
School of Economics, the 2021 CRETE conference, and the 2022 NBER Asset Pricing Summer Institute for
helpful comments. We thank Ken French for sharing data used in the analysis. Financial support from the
Paul Woolley Centre at the LSE is gratefully acknowledged. We also thank The Doors for inspiring our
paper’s title.
The Day Destroys the Night,
Night Extends the Day:
A Clientele Perspective on Equity Premium Variation
Abstract
We decompose market returns into their overnight and intraday components, which dramatically improves equity premium forecasts. Past smoothed overnight market returns strongly
negatively forecast subsequent close-to-close returns (quarterly R2 of over 14%), primarily through intraday mean reversion. In contrast, past smoothed intraday market returns
strongly positively forecast subsequent overnight returns; this partially-offsetting effect explains PE’s relatively poor forecasting ability (R2 only 3%). Our decomposition also resurrects the conditional CAPM: If we allow market betas to vary with past smoothed overnight
returns, the four Fama-French factors’ alphas decrease on average by 84%. We interpret these
return patterns through a clientele perspective. First, individual investor expectations and
consumption growth strongly positively forecast overnight market returns, while intermediary risk tolerance strongly negatively forecasts intraday market returns. Second, aggregate
cash-flow news occurs primarily intraday and is positively (negatively) correlated with revisions in expected future overnight (intraday) returns. Finally, while the Tech boom, Covid
crash/rebound, and patterns in meme stocks were primarily driven by overnight returns, the
Global Financial Crisis was mostly an intraday phenomenon.
JEL classification: G02, G12, G23, N22
1 Introduction
Our understanding of financial markets has evolved in the last few decades to recognize the
potential importance of investor heterogeneity, whether it might be modeling conservative vs.
aggressive investors (Wang (1996)), noise traders vs. smart money (De Long, Shleifer, Summers, and Waldmann (1990)), or individuals vs. institutions (Gabaix and Koijen (2022)).
Though such heterogeneity is likely important for asset prices, researchers are hamstrung by
the fact that the return data we typically study reflect just the net effect of the clienteles in
play. This paper exploits the fact that different types of investors likely prefer to trade or
hold stocks at different points in times, which allows us to empirically characterize investor
heterogeneity. For example, some investors may prefer to trade at or near the morning open,
while others may prefer to trade near the close.
Of course, these two periods differ along several key dimensions, including information
flow, market liquidity, and borrowing costs. It seems likely that many aspects of investor
heterogeneity that might be relevant for asset pricing also manifest as a tendency to trade
in one of these periods rather than the other. In this light, the presence of “overnight” and
“intraday” clienteles seems a reasonable and perhaps even natural view of markets.
We use this clientele perspective along with the distinction between overnight vs. intraday
returns to shed new light on time variation in the equity premium. In particular, we argue
that the overnight and intraday components of market returns reflect, at least in part, the
demand of the clientele that is dominant in trading around the open and close respectively,
and thus can be used to reveal characteristics of each clientele.
We first decompose variation in P E based on past intraday and overnight price movements by smoothing these components of past returns.1 Our main analysis then uses these
smoothed variables to forecast subsequent close-to-close returns, revealing much stronger
mean reversion in the equity premium. In our sample, P E’s relation to subsequent close-to1We confirm that smoothed past overnight returns and smoothed past intraday returns explain a significant portion (77%) of the variation in P E. Adding past smoothed earnings growth increases that to 88%.
However, the earnings growth component of variation in P E has no ability to predict subsequent returns.
1
close returns is weak at best (R2 of just 3%). However, isolating the variation in P E due to
smoothed past overnight returns provides nearly five times the forecasting ability (R2 over
14%).
We then decompose the dependent variable in these forecasting regressions to better
understand the drivers of the variation in close-to-close equity premium. We first find that
mean reversion in the equity premium linked to the smoothed price-earnings ratio (P E)
occurs entirely intraday and is, in fact, a much stronger phenomenon in the intraday period,
as there is economically and statistically significant mean aversion linked to P E that occurs
overnight and partially offsets the intraday mean reversion. These initial results suggest
(which we support with a bevy of additional subsequent tests) that the overnight clientele is
more responsible for the mean aversion (extrapolation) component that pushes prices away
from fundamentals (because of changes in risk tolerance / sentiment) while the intraday
clientele is more responsible for the mean reversion component.
When we forecast these two market return components with the overnight and intraday
components of our P E decomposition, we find striking results. Mean reversion in the stock
market is primarily intraday reversion to past overnight returns; in other words, a “day
destroys the night” phenomenon. In a regression of intraday returns on past smoothed
overnight and intraday returns, the coefficient on the former is negative with a t-statistic of
-5.67 and an R2 of roughly 13%.
In contrast, P E positively forecasts overnight returns because there is strong continuation
of past smoothed intraday returns that happens overnight (thus, a “night extends the day”
phenomenon). In a regression of overnight returns on past smoothed overnight and intraday
returns, the coefficient on the latter is positive with a t-statistic of 3.96 and an R2 over 22%.
We then use our striking predictability results to reexamine the conditional CAPM. We
document that a large portion of the CAPM alpha of the four Fama-French factors (SMB,
HML, RMW, and CMW) is explained by conditional CAPM beta. Over our sample, the
unconditional CAPM alpha on an equal-weight portfolio of those four factors is 3.35%/year.
2
Allowing the CAPM beta of that portfolio to vary with the past smoothed overnight market
return reduces the unconditional abnormal return to 0.55%/year, a percentage drop of more
than 84%.2 This result arises because a one-standard-deviation decline in the past smoothed
overnight market return (which we show forecasts an increase in the equity premium of more
than five percentage points) also forecasts an increase in CAPM beta of 0.2. Thus, the
conditional CAPM does explain the unconditional returns of the Fama-French asset-pricing
anomalies over these two decades, in contrast to the conclusion of Lewellen and Nagel (2006)
and a testament to the importance of our overnight / intraday decomposition of P E.
Nevertheless, though the unconditional alpha is close to zero after allowing CAPM betas
to vary with the past smoothed overnight market return, once we allow the conditional
alpha of this portfolio to move with the past smoothed overnight market return as well, we
find that a one-standard-deviation increase in our overnight variable forecasts an increase
in the conditional CAPM alpha of the composite Fama-French non-market factor portfolio
of 2.9%/year. Thus, our novel decomposition ultimately reveals rich conditional mispricing
relative to a conditional CAPM that may facilitate a better understanding of the underlying
economics driving the Fama-French five-factor model.
Momentum still breaks the conditional CAPM. Interestingly, we do find strong movement
in momentum’s market beta linked to past intraday returns; however, since this component
does not predict the equity premium, momentum’s conditional CAPM alpha does not materially change. Furthermore, once we allow the conditional alpha of the momentum portfolio
to vary with past smoothed intraday returns as well, we find that a one-standard-deviation
increase in our intraday variable forecasts an increase in the conditional CAPM alpha of the
momentum portfolio of roughly 7%/year.
Our ability to forecast the market is not only statistically and economically significant
2As we estimate conditional time-series factor regressions, our findings are not subject to the critique
of Lewellan and Nagel (2006) that previous conditional cross-sectional CAPM tests (like Jagannathan and
Wang, 1996 and Lettau and Ludvigson, 2001) ignore important restrictions on their tests’ cross-sectional
slopes.
3
but also is robust to an out-of-sample analysis.3 A simple strategy that times the market
based on the smoothed overnight return produces a CAPM alpha of 2.1% per quarter with
an associated t-statistic of 2.75. Including the five non-market factors of Fama and French
(2015) and Carhart (1997) results in an alpha of 1.4% per quarter with a t-statistic of 3.16.
This strategy continues to earn an economically and statistically significant six-factor alpha
of 1% per quarter (t-statistic of 2.43) on an out-of-sample basis (where the parameters are
estimated using an expanding window).
Interpreting this predictability from a clientele perspective naturally leads to the question
of how overnight and intraday clienteles differ. We characterize these clienteles in four
ways: First, we analyze the relation of each return component with investor expectations
from survey data. Second, we analyze the relation of each return component with standard
macro-finance variables. Third, we examine the Tech boom/bust, the Global Financial Crisis
(GFC), and the Covid crash/rebound through our clientele lens. Finally, we split aggregate
close-to-close discount rate news into two components reflecting revisions in future overnight
and intraday expected returns and then measure the way those two components move with
aggregate close-to-close cash-flow news.
Our analysis of Greenwood and Shleifer’s (2014) investor expectations reveals novel facts.
In particular, we find that their main observation that individual investors extrapolate past
returns reflects extrapolation of smoothed intraday returns, as smoothed overnight returns
have very little explanatory power, either alone or in tandem. Further consistent with
our extrapolation story, we find that individual investor expectations positively forecast
subsequent overnight market returns but have no information about future intraday returns.
As our predictability results imply that intraday returns are primarily driven by cash-flow
news (as our modified Campbell (1991) return decomposition confirms), these findings are
consistent with investors overreacting to news about fundamentals, rather than realized
3All our empirical findings are also robust to controls for a host of well-known forecasting variables,
including, for example, realized volatility; the term, default, and value premia; and the consumption-wealth
ratio of Lettau and Ludvigson (2001).
4
returns. Thus, our results help flesh out why Greenwood and Shleifer (2014) find that
individual investor expectations are strongly negatively correlated with statistical-modelbased expected close-to-close returns. Our results also address the on-going debate in the
behavioral finance literature as to whether investors extrapolate fundamentals or returns
when forming their biased beliefs.4
Our macro-finance analysis also yields interesting results. A generation of financial
economists has tried to link consumption growth to close-to-close market returns, but with
little empirical success. However, our novel decomposition reveals a strong link between
consumption growth and overnight returns. Past consumption growth forecasts subsequent
overnight returns with a t-statistic of 4.88. In contrast, consumption growth has a negative
and insignificant relation to subsequent intraday returns.5 We also find that our Intermediary Risk Tolerance measure that accumulates the shocks of Adrian et al. (2014) strongly
negatively forecasts intraday market returns.
In sum, the return predictability results based on individual investor expectations, as
well as those results based on our macro-finance variables, all support the notion that mean
aversion primarily occurs overnight (both individual investor expectations and consumption
growth positively predict overnight market returns), while mean reversion primarily occurs
intraday (intermediary risk tolerance negatively forecasts intraday market returns). As such,
our findings point to different clienteles operating in the overnight and intraday periods, with
the former having characteristics typically associated with households and the latter having
characteristics typically associated with institutions.
We then zoom in on three bubble/crisis episodes in the last three decades. We show that
4Some researchers model the formulation of beliefs as the extrapolation of fundamentals (Barberis,
Shleifer, and Vishny (1998); Rabin and Vayanos (2010); Fuster, Hebert, and Laibson (2012); and Bordalo, Gennaioli, and Shleifer (2018)), while others model belief formulation as price/return extrapolation
(De Long, Shleifer, Summers, and Waldmann (1990); Hong and Stein (1999); Barberis, Greenwood, Jin,
and Shleifer (2018); Farhi and Werning (2020); and Bastianello and Fontanier (2022a,b)). Fontanier (2022)
argues that distinguishing between these two different ways in which investor beliefs may be biased matters
for determining the appropriate policy response.
5
Indeed, we show that consumption growth not only predicts but also is contemporaneously correlated
with overnight returns. These links are evident at leads/lags of up to 2 quarters.
5
the Tech boom of the late 1990s and the Covid crash and rebound of 2020 were primarily
an overnight phenomenon, consistent with the view that individual investors were largely
responsible for these events. In a similar fashion, we show that the large price spikes in
meme stocks were primarily an overnight phenomenon. In contrast, the Global Financial
Crisis of 2008 was primarily an intraday phenomenon, consistent with the important role
intermediaries played during that market dislocation. Our findings for the Tech and GFC
episodes are consistent with the analysis of Campbell, Giglio, and Polk (2013) who argue
that the former was a boom/bust primarily driven by discount rates while the latter was
primarily a cash-flow-news event.
Finally, we summarize our findings using a VAR and a modified version of the return decomposition of Campbell (1991). Specifically, we decompose aggregate close-to-close
discount-rate news into news about future expected intraday and overnight components of
market returns. Consistent with our clientele interpretation, news about future expected
overnight (intraday) returns is positively (negatively) correlated with cash-flow news. In
other words, when good news about fundamentals arrives, the overnight clientele continues
to push prices in the direction of that cash-flow news, resulting in a positive correlation with
fundamentals. The intraday clientele then pulls prices back, hence the negative correlation.
Moreover, and also in line with our interpretation, we find that intraday returns are driven
primarily by cash-flow news while overnight returns are driven mostly by discount-rate news.
In summary, all four approaches we take to characterize those two clienteles point in
the same direction: The overnight clientele displays risk tolerance variation and behavioral
characteristics typically associated with households, and the intraday clientele displays the
type of risk tolerance variation associated with institutions. This set of observations dovetails with evidence presented in Lou, Polk, and Skouras (LPS 2019), in the context of the
cross-section of average firm-level overnight and intraday stock returns; households are key
members of the overnight clientele and institutions trade more aggressively during the day.
The organization of our paper is as follows. Section 2 briefly summarizes existing litera6
ture. Section 3 describes the data and empirical methodology. Section 4 presents our main
results on time-series variation in the equity premium. Section 5 provides our key pricing
results, including results from a conditional CAPM that prices the unconditional returns
of the four Fama-French non-market factors. Section 6 presents evidence supporting our
interpretation of the findings. Section 7 concludes.
2 Related Literature
LPS are the first to link investor heterogeneity to the persistence of the overnight and intraday components of firm-level returns. Their work documents strong firm-level return continuation across both the overnight and intraday return components, i.e. an own-component
continuation effect, along with an offsetting cross-component reversal effect. Consistent with
the interpretation that these effects represent important and persistent investor clienteles,
LPS show that the return predictability they find lasts for years. In contrast to LPS, at the
aggregate level, we find no own-component continuation, if anything there is some evidence
of own-component reversal. Moreover, the aggregate cross component lead-lag effect is asymmetric: Smoothed past overnight returns forecast intraday return reversals, while smoothed
past intraday returns forecast overnight return continuation. Therefore, the equity premium
predictability studied here is distinct from the cross-sectional patterns documented in earlier
research.
The idea that institutions and individuals represent important heterogeneity in asset markets goes back to at least Gompers and Metrick (2001). Early work by Cohen (2003) uses
flow of funds data to show that the equity allocations of individuals are cyclical while institutions keep a roughly constant allocation to equities over time. More recently, Greenwood
and Shleifer (2014) show that investor expectations are strongly negatively correlated with
model-based expected returns while Ben-Rephael, Kandel, and Wohl (2012) show that net
exchanges by households between bond and equity retail mutual funds within the same fund
7
family negatively forecast future market excess returns. Cohen, Gompers, and Vuolteenaho
(2002) document that institutions buy shares from (sell shares to) individuals in response to
positive (negative) cash-flow news. Conversely, individuals buy shares from (sell shares to)
institutions in response to negative (positive) discount-rate news.
Our paper also relates to the literature studying fund flows and market dynamics. Warther
(1995) and Edelen and Warner (2001) find a positive relationship between aggregate mutual
fund flows and concurrent monthly, weekly, or daily market returns. Vayanos and Woolley
(2013) and Gabaix and Koijen (2022) study asset pricing consequences of flows when there
are financial frictions. Similarly, Lou and Polk (2022) argue that the actions of momentum
traders can be destabilizing, pushing prices away from fundamental value.
3 Data and Methodology
Our core US sample spans the period 1993 to 2019, constrained by the availability of TAQ
data.
3.1 Measuring Overnight and Intraday Components
To decompose the close-to-close return into its overnight and intraday components, we use
the volume-weighted average price (VWAP) in the first half hour of trading (9:30 am - 10:00
am) for the SPDR S&P 500 Trust ETF, as reported in TAQ.6 We rely on VWAP to ensure
that our open prices are robust.
We define the intraday return, r
MKT
intraday,s, as the price appreciation between market open
and close of the same day s, and impute the overnight return, r
MKT
overnight,s, based on this
6We have also verified that our results are robust to using open prices from other sources: a) open prices
as reported by the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) which also starts in 1993 (since their data
are sourced from TAQ), b) the first trade price from TAQ, and c) the midpoint of the quoted bid-ask spread
at the open from TAQ. We have also confirmed that our main predictability results are robust to using the
open prices on a broad bottom-up market proxy rather than the SP 500 ETF. When doing so, to safeguard
against the possibility that our VWAP may be driven by very small orders, we exclude observations where
there are fewer than 1000 shares traded in the first half hour (we have also checked that our results are not
sensitive to this restriction).
8
intraday return and the standard daily close-to-close return, r
MKT
close−to−close,s,
r
MKT
intraday,s =
P
MKT
close,s
P MKT
open,s
− 1,
r
MKT
overnight,s =
1 + r
MKT
close−to−close,s
1 + r
MKT
intraday,s
− 1.
In other words, we assume that dividend adjustments, share splits, and other corporate
events that could mechanically move prices take place overnight. We then accumulate these
overnight and intraday returns across days in each month t.
r
MKT
intraday,t =
Y
s∈t
(1 + r
MKT
intraday,s) − 1,
r
MKT
overnight,t =
Y
s∈t
(1 + r
MKT
overnight,s) − 1,
(1 + r
MKT
intraday,t)(1 + r
MKT
overnight,t) = (1 + r
MKT
t
).
3.2 Measuring the Drivers of PE
We hypothesize that there are different investor clienteles. For example, at a particular point
in time, one clientele may be bullish on the market, while another clientele may be bearish
and thus trade in the opposite direction, To the extent that these different clienteles have
varying degrees of trading intensities during the day versus overnight (i.e. at the market
open), variation in the relative magnitudes of overnight and intraday returns provides useful
insights into their collective behavior and subsequent market performance.
To take this prediction to the data, we define smoothed returns using monthly returns
as follows:
EWMAOvernight,t = λrMKT
Overnight,t + (1 − λ)EWMAOvernight,t−1,
EWMAIntraday,t = λrMKT
Intraday,t + (1 − λ)EWMAIntraday,t−1,
9
Our results are robust to a reasonable range of smoothing parameters; we set λ equal
to 1
120+1 for our analysis which implies a center of mass of ten years and a half-life for the
resulting weights of approximately 7 years.
3.3 Other Data
We measure quarterly consumption growth using the change in log per-capita consumption
expenditures, on a seasonally-adjusted basis, measured in 1992 dollars. We take P E from
Shiller’s website but ensure that we remove any interpolation so that the resulting variable
does not use ex post information. To create Intermediary Risk Tolerance (Intermediary
RT), we take the intermediary factor from Adrian et al. (2014) and accumulate the resulting
factor shock to create a level variable. We take individual investor expectations (Indiv.
Inv. Exp.) for the American Association of Individual Investors from the online appendix of
Greenwood and Shleifer (2014). We choose this specific variable among many other measures
of investor expectations because it has the longest history.
3.4 Summary Statistics
Table I reports summary statistics of our variables, with two key takeaways. First, the
average quarterly overnight return is 1.8% while the average quarterly intraday return is 0.
This finding is consistent with a literature that finds that much of the equity premium is
earned overnight.7
Another key takeaway is that the two smoothed past return components – smoothed
overnight and intraday returns – are only weakly correlated (0.05) with each other. This
fact suggests a role for each of these two components to capture different aspects of time
variation in the equity premium.
7Work by Kelly and Clark (2011) suggests that aggregate stock returns on average are higher overnight
than intraday. See related work by Branch and Ma (2008), Cliff, Cooper, and Gulen (2008), Tao and Qiu
(2008), Berkman et al. (2009), Branch and Ma (2012), and Akbas et al. (2019). Lou, Polk, and Skouras
(2019) note that this effect is concentrated in large stocks.
10
Table I Panel A also confirms that the intraday components of returns are more volatile
than their overnight counterparts. This finding echos the fact that researchers since at least
Fama (1965) have shown that volatility is higher during trading hours than non-trading
hours.8 Figure 1 plots our two smoothed return components against P E.
4 Main Empirical Results
A well-accepted view in finance is that household risk tolerance / sentiment drives variation in
the equity premium. Typically, researchers have identified this mean reversion using scaled
price ratios, like Shiller’s CAPE variable (P E), which measure low-frequency movements
away from fundamentals. Of course, variation in PE is due to either variation in cumulative
overnight returns, cumulative intraday returns, or cumulative earnings growth. Indeed, in
Table II column one, we confirm that these three variables explain 99% of the variation in
P E. However, though reasonable arguments can be made that P E is stationary, these three
components are not. As a consequence, we use in our analysis smoothed versions of these
three components of P E to guarantee stationarity. The rest of the table shows that these
three smoothed variables explain as much as 88% of the variation in P E. We will show that
these three smoothed variables differentially forecast subsequent market return components.
Table III presents several key findings of the paper across three related analyses. In
Panel A, we forecast close-to-close excess returns; in Panel B, we forecast intraday excess
returns; and in Panel C, we forecast overnight excess returns. The intraday and overnight
excess returns are constructed by subtracting 6.5/24 and 17.5/24 respectively of the risk-free
rate from the corresponding return component. Though we simply allocate the T-bill return
based on the relative portion of the 24-hour day, that methodological choice does not affect
our findings to any significant extent, and our results are robust to other ways of allocating
the risk-free return.
8See also French (1980) and French and Roll (1986).
11
4.1 Strong predictability of the close-to-close equity premium
Table III Panel A column (1) documents that P E has a tenuous relation with subsequent
close-to-close returns, at least in our sample, with a t-statistic of only -1.77 and an R2
of just 3%. Despite this lack of overall return predictability, the rest of the table shows
that examining P E’s components reveals fascinating insights about the drivers of timeseries variation in the equity premium. Column (2) in the table shows that past smoothed
intraday returns have an insignificant relation to subsequent close-to-close quarterly returns.
However, the information in is surprisingly strong, both statistically and economically, which
is the first key finding of the paper.9 Statistically, the t-statistic is over 5.5, more than three
times the t-statistic on P E. The R2
, at 14.1%, is more than four times as large.
In all of these regressions, the right-hand side variables are normalized for the ease of
interpretation. Therefore, a one-standard-deviation move in smoothed overnight returns
forecasts a change in the quarterly equity premium of 3.2%. The third column in the table
shows the results when we lag the right-hand-side variables by an additional quarter. The
ability of past smoothed overnight returns to forecast subsequent returns remains strong.
If we include smoothed earnings growth, there is virtually no change in the point estimate
of interest. The final column adds several well-known return forecasting variables to the
regression, the cay of Lettau and Ludvigson (2001), the value spread of Campbell and
Vuolteenaho (2004), and realized volatility, with our effect subsuming all other variables.10
9Our decomposition not only reveals striking differences in equity premium dynamics across these two
parts of the day, it reduces concerns about classic econometric issues associated with forecasting market
returns. In many time-series tests of return predictability, the forecasting variable is persistent with shocks
that are correlated with return shocks. In this case, the small-sample p-values obtained from the usual
student-t test can be misleading (Stambaugh, 1999; Hodrick, 1992, and others). Indeed, Nelson and Kim
(1993); Ang and Bekaert (2007); Lewellen (2004); Torous et al. (2005); Campbell and Yogo (2006); and
Polk, Thompson, and Vuolteenaho (2006) all propose sophisticated procedures to deal with the Stambaugh
(1999) problem. For example, P E in our sample has an AR(1) coefficient of 0.94, and the P E shock has a
correlation of 0.93 with the corresponding return shock. However, since our decomposition finds that past
smoothed overnight returns negatively predict intraday returns and since the correlation between overnight
and intraday returns is close to zero, the Stambaugh size distortions are no longer a concern, alleviating
worries related to this long-standing econometric issue. Similar considerations apply in all regressions of
Table III, and we have confirmed that p-values do not change significantly if we apply the correction of Polk,
Thompson and Vuolteenaho (2006).
10In untabulated results, we have also confirmed that our findings are robust to controlling for the term
12
4.2 Mean reversion intraday and mean aversion overnight
In the remaining two panels, we decompose the market return on the left-hand side of the
regression as well. In Panel B of Table III, we forecast intraday excess returns. As can be
seen in the first column, P E has a strong negative relation with subsequent intraday returns.
This result suggests that intraday clienteles – institutions, for example – help facilitate the
well-known mean reversion in aggregate returns.
Since past smoothed overnight returns track the mean reversion in close-to-close returns,
we expect that EWMAOvernight also captures the intraday mean reversion weakly identified
by P E in column (1) of this panel, and column (2) confirms that view. The result that
the mean reversion linked to past overnight returns primarily occurs intraday is the second
key finding of the paper. As in Panel A, Column (3) of Panel B shows that these results
are robust to lagging by an additional quarter, and column (4) shows that adding smoothed
earnings growth does not change the result qualitatively. Column (5) confirms that the result
is robust to the inclusion of other return forecasting variables from prior literature.
Panel C of Table III forecasts overnight returns and presents the third major finding of
the paper – strong return continuation that happens overnight. Column (1) shows that we
can measure that overnight return continuation, at least to some degree, with P E. The
coefficient on P E is positive and significant at the 10% level. Thus, part of the reason that
P E does a poor job predicting mean reversion in close-to-close market returns is the partially
offsetting mean aversion that occurs overnight. Our decomposition of P E refines this result
considerably, as once we decompose P E, it is clear that smoothed intraday returns are what
drive the overnight continuation. Taken at face value, this finding seems reasonable. Since
there is more volatility in intraday returns and intraday moves are arguably more salient, one
might expect intraday returns to drive future household expectations and trading decisions.
More importantly, our predictability results imply that past smoothed returns primarily
reflect aggregate cash-flow news, as this variable has little information about subsequent
spread, the default spread, and the SVIX of Martin (2017).
13
close-to-close returns. The notion that investor expectations may be (excessively) driven by
fundamentals has a long history in behavioral economics. We explore this idea more fully in
Section 6.
5 Pricing Tests
5.1 A Conditional CAPM
Our next analysis examines the extent to which our powerful conditioning variables (past
smoothed overnight and intraday market returns) also track variation in CAPM betas. Since
we have already established that these variables forecast the equity premium, if conditional
betas comove with the conditional equity premium, alphas in a conditional CAPM analysis
will change, perhaps significantly so.
As a baseline, in Table IV Panel A, we show the unconditional CAPM alphas of the Fama
French size, value, investment, profitability factors as well as an equal-weight average of these
four factors. We also include a momentum factor and a betting-against-beta strategy. All
factors are from Ken French’s website.
In Panel B, we interact the market return with our two lagged conditioning variables.
These variables are demeaned and standardized to aid in interpretation. The unconditional
alpha of the composite strategy drops by roughly 84% in magnitude from a significant 84
bps/quarter to an insignificant 14 bps/quarter once we allow its market beta to vary with
our conditioning variables. The ability to track the conditional CAPM beta is due to the
past smoothed overnight market return, with a loading of -0.213 and an associated t-statistic
of -6.79. In other words, for a one-standard-deviation increase in smoothed overnight market
returns, the market beta of the composite strategy decreases by 0.213. In contrast to the
evidence in Lewellen and Nagel (2006), the conditional CAPM does explain the unconditional
returns of the Fama-French factors, at least over our 22-year sample period.
Though we also find that momentum’s CAPM beta varies through time, that variation
14
is linked to the past smoothed intraday return which we know does not forecast variation in
the equity premium. As a consequence, there is little reduction in the unconditional alpha
of the momentum factor within our conditional beta model.
In Panel C, we also allow the conditional CAPM alphas to vary with our conditioning variables. We find that the conditional CAPM alpha of the equal-weight Fama-French
four-factor portfolio varies positively with lagged smoothed overnight market returns. In
contrast, the conditional CAPM alpha of momentum varies positively with lagged smoothed
intraday market returns. Thus, our conditioning variables also reveal striking time-variation
in conditional CAPM alphas over this time period.
5.2 Out-of-sample Market Timing
In Table V, we examine the economic magnitude of our equity-premium predictability by
forming a managed portfolio based on EWMAOvernight. We then estimate the alphas of this
portfolio with respect to the CAPM, the Fama and French (1993) three-factor model, the
Fama and French (2015) five-factor model, and the Fama-French-Carhart six-factor model
(i.e., Fama and French’s five-factor model augmented with a momentum factor as in Carhart
(1997)).
Column (1) of Panel A shows that a strategy that times the market based on EWMAOvernight
produces a CAPM alpha of 2.1% per quarter with an associated t-statistic of 2.75. Estimating this alpha out-of-sample (Panel B) reduces the alpha only slightly: the estimate remains
an economically large 1.6% per quarter with a t-statistic of 2.68. These results are robust to
controlling for other risk factors. For example, column (4) in Panel A of Table V shows that
the in-sample six-factor alpha is 1.4% (t-statistic = 3.16) per quarter. The six-factor alpha
for the out-of-sample strategy remains 1% per quarter with a t-statistic of 2.43.
15
6 A Clientele-Based Interpretation
One interpretation of our findings is that there are different investor clienteles that trade at
different points in time; some prefer to trade at market open and others at market close.
In this section, we conduct additional analyses to shed more light on investor heterogeneity
across the intraday and overnight periods. In particular, we offer four broad pieces of evidence. We first turn to individual investor expectations to study how these beliefs vary with
past overnight and intraday market returns. We confirm Greenwood and Shleifer’s (2014)
key conclusion that investors extrapolate past returns when forming expectations; we then
refine this message with the observation that investors more specifically extrapolate past
intraday returns. We also show that these expectations positively forecast future overnight
returns but not future intraday returns.
Second, we examine two key macro-finance variables that are the focus of many prior
studies and are also interesting in our context. Specifically, we study the relation between
intraday/overnight market returns and consumption growth, a classic asset-pricing variable
that is only weakly linked to close-to-close market returns. We then examine whether a
measure of intermediary risk tolerance is related to mean reversion in equity returns, and in
particular, the mean reversion that primarily occurs intraday.
Third, we estimate a VAR-based return decomposition, following Campbell (1991). This
technique allows us to decompose discount-rate news into components reflecting revisions
in expectations of future overnight and intraday returns and to link those components to
cash-flow news implied by the VAR (i.e., the residual term).
Fourth, we examine three bubble/crash episodes in the last three decades: the late 1990s
Tech boom and subsequent bust, the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), and the Covid crash
and rebound of 2020, all through our clientele prism. The last event is particularly relevant
as it occurred after the publication of LPS. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the Covid
lockdown and subsequent aggressive government policies resulted in many households being
relatively flush with cash and making aggressive investments in the equity market. The
16
Covid sub-period thus provides a unique opportunity to confirm when households are more
likely to trade – overnight or intraday.
6.1 Individual Investor Expectations
Greenwood and Shleifer (2014) argue that individual investors extrapolate past returns in
forming their expectations; this view has been part of an exciting and growing literature in
behavioral economics. Table VI reports regressions of individual investors’ expectations on
smoothed overnight and intraday returns. We find that individual investors’ expectations
vary primarily with EWMAIntraday (column (1)); EWMAOvernight has no explanatory power,
either in isolation (column (2)) or in tandem (column (3)). The regressions in Table VI
are contemporaneous; if one lags the right-hand side by a quarter, the same qualitative
finding holds. This evidence linking survey expectations to a particular component of returns
is consistent with the idea that individual investors extrapolate news about fundamentals
(which mainly drive intraday returns, as the results in Table III imply, and we confirm in
Section 6.3).
6.2 Macro-finance Variables
Prior research in asset pricing has trouble linking consumption growth to close-to-close stock
returns as predicted by theory. Table VII Panel A regresses consumption growth on both
components of market returns to reveal a strong link between consumption growth and
overnight returns and no link with intraday returns. Of course, one might worry that consumption data are released with a lag. However, we find a strong relation using consumption
anywhere from quarter t-2 to quarter t+2. Moreover, our finding is robust to reversing the
regression specification and instead regressing each component of market returns on consumption growth (Panels B and C). Across leads and lags, and regardless of whether it is
on the left-hand side or right-hand side, consumption growth has no relation to intraday
returns and a strong relation to overnight returns.
17
Haddad and Muir (2021) argue that shocks to intermediary risk tolerance have little
predictive power for equity returns, but strong predictive power for returns in intermediated
markets such as the market for credit default swaps (CDS). We take the intermediary factor
from Adrian et al. (2014) and accumulate the shocks to back out the level of intermediary
risk tolerance / risk appetite at each point in time.
For the sake of comparison, in all panels of Table VIII, we first report in column (1)
the analysis in column (2) of Table III. Consistent with Greenwood and Shleifer (2014),
column (2) of Table VIII Panel A confirms that there is no link between individual investor
expectations and subsequent close-to-close returns, either in isolation or in conjunction with
the two smoothed components of past market returns. Column (4) shows that consumption
growth does not forecast subsequent close-to-close returns either. Column (5) shows that
Intermediary RT is informative, at least in isolation, about close-to-close returns. However,
column (6) documents that Intermediary RT is driven out by EWMAOvernight.
Panel B of Table VIII then repeats the exercise in Panel A but replaces the dependent
variable, next month’s close-to-close return, with the intraday return component. This
panel shows that the mean reversion picked up in close-to-close returns by Intermediary
RT is particularly strong intraday. However, EWMAOvernight also subsumes that variable’s
ability to forecast intraday returns. We continue to find only mean reversion intraday, when
institutions typically trade. As with close-to-close returns, neither consumption growth nor
individual investor expectations have any predictive power.
Finally, in Panel C of Table VIII, we forecast overnight returns and find strong confirming evidence of the importance of the overnight clientele and its reflection of household
investment decisions. Column (2) of the panel shows that individual investors’ expectations positively forecast subsequent overnight returns in isolation. As might be expected,
given how noisy these expectation estimates are, they are subsumed by EWMAOvernight and
EWMAIntraday in column (3). Nevertheless, these results indicate that the expectations
data studied in Greenwood and Shleifer (2014) not only reveal extrapolation but are also
18
informative about the actions these investors take (buying into the market, primarily at the
open).
Column (4) shows that consumption growth strongly forecasts subsequent overnight returns, with a t-statistic of 4.88. In column (7), where all of our key variables (smoothed
overnight and intraday market returns, consumption growth, and intermediary risk tolerance) are included in the regression, the coefficients on past smoothed intraday returns and
consumption growth remain statistically positive.
In sum, the return predictability results of individual investor expectations, as well as
those of our macro-finance variables, all support the notion that overnight returns (and the
corresponding clientele) are where mean aversion primarily occurs (both individual investor
expectations and consumption growth positively predict overnight market returns), while
intraday returns are where mean reversion primarily occurs (both the intermediary risk
tolerance and household equity share negatively forecast overnight market returns).
6.3 Decomposing Discount-rate News
We next conduct a return decomposition exercise, following Campbell (1991). We assume
that a first-order VAR describes the transition of the state variables where the first and
second elements are r
Intraday, the log intraday return in excess of (6.5/24) * log risk-free
rate, and r
Overnight, the log intraday return in excess of (17.5/24) * log risk-free rate.
xt+1 = x¯ + Γ(xt − x¯) + ut+1,
xt+1 = [r
Intraday
t+1 , r
Overnight
t+1 ]; rt+1 = r
Intraday
t+1 + r
Overnight
t+1 .
These two variables sum up to the excess log return on the market and therefore allow a
straightforward decomposition of the standard Campbell (1991) discount-rate news term
into its intraday and overnight components. Importantly, we are decomposing discount-rate
news that arrives throughout the close-to-close period into components related to news about
19
expected intraday and overnight returns (note that this decomposition is not the same as
measuring whether discount news arrives intraday or overnight).
rt+1 − Etrt+1 = NCF,t+1 − NDR,t+1,
NDR,t+1 = N
Intraday
DR,t+1 + N
Overnight
DR,t+1 ,
N
Intraday
DR,t+1 = (Et+1 − Et)
X∞
j=1
ρ
j
r
Intraday
t+1+j = e
0
1
X∞
j=1
ρ
jΓ
jut+1 = e
0
1ρΓ(I − ρΓ)
−1ut+1,
N
Overnight
DR,t+1 = (Et+1 − Et)
X∞
j=1
ρ
j
r
Overnight
t+1+j = e
0
2
X∞
j=1
ρ
jΓ
jut+1 = e
0
2ρΓ(I − ρΓ)
−1ut+1.
As in Campbell (1991), we measure cash-flow news (which technically includes both news
about dividend growth and news about the log real interest rate) as the residual.
Table IX Panel A reports estimates of the transition matrix. The findings are broadly
consistent with the results of Table III which uses simple returns. Table IX Panel B shows
that cash-flow news has the smallest volatility of the three components. Consistent with
our interpretation of the data, we find that intraday discount-rate news is significantly more
volatile than overnight discount-rate news. Moreover, in comparison to a baseline VAR
(unreported) which simply uses P E to forecast close-to-close returns, there’s a lot more
discount rate news in total. The two components of discount-rate news are only weakly
contemporaneously correlated (0.177), far from a perfect correlation.
Figure 3 provides a graphical view of the forecasts from the VAR and shows how together
they imply significantly more variation in the close-to-close equity premium than the baseline
VAR (where we do not include the intraday and overnight components of the market return).
Perhaps most interestingly, the correlations between two return components and cashflow news change signs as we move from intraday to overnight. Indeed, a regression (not
tabulated) of N
Overnight
DR,t+1 − N
Intraday
DR,t+1 on NCF,t+1 has a coefficient of 4.18 with a t-statistic of
20.95, and an R2 of 83%.
Moreover, the change in the correlation is consistent with an extrapolation interpretation
20
of our findings. For example, after good news about fundamentals arrives, the overnight
clientele will push prices away from fundamentals, resulting in a positive correlation between
the discount rate news about future overnight returns and cash-flow news. The intraday
clientele will pull prices back, hence the negative correlation between the discount rate news
about future intraday returns and cash-flow news.
In line with that interpretation, we find that intraday returns are primarily driven by cashflow news while overnight returns are primarily driven by discount-rate news. The correlation
between cash-flow news and the spread between intraday and overnight realized returns is
0.76. Since Table VI documents that individual investors expectations are driven by past
intraday returns, this finding suggests that individual investors extrapolate fundamentals
rather than returns.
6.4 The Covid Crash, GFC, and Tech Boom/Bust
Figure 4 Panel A plots how the intraday and overnight components of market returns moved
during the Covid crash and rebound of 2020. The patterns in 2020 are stark and confirm
the importance of our clientele story. The majority of the Covid crash and rebound comes
overnight. This finding is consistent with anecdotal evidence of increased retail participation
due to Covid lockdowns.
We also examine two other well-know bubble/crisis episodes in recent decades through
our intraday/overnight prism. Figure 4 Panel B plots the intraday/overnight components
of aggregate returns during the Global Financial Crisis. This event was much more of an
intraday phenomenon, consistent with declining intermediary risk tolerance playing a key
role in driving market prices in this episode.
Figure 4 Panel C uses our approach to study the tech boom and bust of the late 1990s
and early 2000s. As far back as 1997, intraday returns were flat at best and then became
slowly negative. In contrast, the striking rise in valuations in this episode is entirely driven
by overnight returns. This episode highlights how a PE measure based on close-to-close
21
market returns effectively combines the much earlier intraday peak in early 1998 with the
much later overnight peak in 2001.
Figure F documents that these patterns occur for well-known meme stocks – AMC;
GameStop; Bed, Bath, and Beyond; and Koss. The patterns in these meme stocks are known
to be driven by retail investors and their remarkable price spikes occur entirely overnight.
In contrast, their intraday returns tend to go the opposite way.
7 Conclusions
In this paper, we decompose close-to-close market returns into their overnight and intraday
components, which reveals strong predictability of the equity premium. This phenomenon
is a much stronger version of the well-known mean reversion in returns linked to the priceearnings ratio. Smoothed overnight returns negatively forecast future close-to-close returns,
particularly the intraday component. The ability of PE to forecast close-to-close returns is
hamstrung by the partially-offsetting effect that smoothed intraday returns strongly positively forecast future overnight returns.
Our decomposition also resurrects the conditional CAPM: If we allow beta to vary with
past smoothed overnight returns, the unconditional alpha of the four Fama-French nonmarket factors decreases by 84%. Nevertheless, once we also allow CAPM alphas to also
vary with our conditioning variables, we find that the conditional CAPM alpha of these four
factors varies positively with smoothed overnight market returns. In contrast, the conditional
CAPM alpha of the momentum strategy varies positively with smoothed intraday market
returns.
We interpret this predictability as the outcome of the interaction of overnight and intraday clienteles and attempt to characterize these clienteles. First, survey evidence reveals that
retail investor expectations are driven by past intraday market returns but not overnight
returns. In addition, these expectations positively forecast future overnight returns (but
22
not future intraday returns). Second, an analysis exploiting macro-finance variables reveals
that overnight returns (but not intraday returns) are strongly correlated with consumption
growth, and that intermediary risk tolerance negatively predict intraday market returns.
Third, a cash-flow / discount-rate news decomposition reveals that news about future expected overnight returns is positively correlated with cash-flow news, and that news about
future expected intraday returns is negatively correlated with cash-flow news.
These facts are consistent with the idea that the overnight clientele extrapolates cashflow news while the intraday clientele pulls prices back. All of these results suggest that the
overnight clientele has characteristics typically associated with households, and the intraday
clientele has characteristics associated with institutions, in line with the findings of Lou,
Polk and Skouras (2019) in a different cross-sectional context. Moreover, our findings help
resolve a debate in behavioral economics as to whether investors extrapolate fundamentals
or returns, a distinction that has important policy implications (Fontanier (2022)).
23
References
Adrian, Tobias, Erkko Etula, Tyler Muir, 2014, “Financial Intermediaries and the CrossSection of Asset Returns,” Journal of Finance 69 2557–2596.
Akbas, Ferhat, Ekkehart Boehmer, Chao Jiang, and Paul Koch, 2019, “Overnight Returns,
Daytime Reversals, and Future Stock Returns: The Risk of Investing in a Tug of War
With Noise Traders,” University of Illinois at Chicago Working Paper.
Ang, Andrew and Geert Beckhart, 2007, “Stock Market Predictability: Is it There?,” Review of Financial Studies 20 651–707.
Barberis, Nicholas, Robin Greenwood, Lawrence Jin, and Andrei Shleifer, 2018, “Extrapolation and Bubbles,” Journal of Financial Economics 129 203–227.
Barberis, Nicholas, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny, 1998, “A Model of Investor Sentiment,” Journal of Financial Economics 49 307–343.
Bastianello, Francesca and Paul Fontanier, 2022a, “Partial Equilibrium Thinking, Extrapolation, and Bubbles,” University of Chicago Working Paper.
Bastianello, Francesca and Paul Fontanier, 2022b, “Partial Equilibrium Thinking in General
Equilibrium,” University of Chicago Working Paper.
Ben-Rephael, Azi, Shmuel Kandel, and Avi Wohl, 2012, “Measuring Investor Sentiment
with Mutual Fund Flows,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 46 585–
603.
Berkman, Henk, Paul D. Koch, Laura Tuttle, and Ying Zhang, 2009, “Dispersion of Opinions, Short Sale Constraints, and Overnight Returns,” University of Auckland Working
Paper
Bordalo, Pedro, Nicola Gennaioli, and Andrei Shleifer, 2018, “Diagnostic Expectations and
Credit Cycles,” The Journal of Finance 73 199–227.
Branch, Ben and Aixin Ma, 2008, “The Overnight Return, One More Anomaly,” University
of Massachusetts Working Paper.
Branch, Ben and Aixin Ma, 2012, “Overnight Return, the Invisible Hand Behind Intraday
Returns,” Journal of Financial Markets 2 90–100.
Campbell, John Y., 1991, “A Variance Decomposition for Stock Returns,” Economic Journal 101 157–179.
Campbell, John Y. and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2004, “Bad Beta, Good Beta,” American
Economic Review 94 1249–1275.
Campbell, John Y., Stefano Giglio, and Christopher Polk, 2013, “Hard Times,” Review of
Asset Pricing Studies 3 95–132.
24
Campbell, John Y. and Motohiro Yogo, 2006, “Efficient Tests of Stock Return Predictability,” Journal of Financial Economics 81 27–60.
Carhart, Mark, 1997, “On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance,” Journal of Finance
52 57–82.
Cliff, Michael, Michael Cooper, Huseyin Gulen, 2008, “Return Differences between Trading
and Non-trading Hours: Like Night and Day,” Virginia Tech working paper.
Cohen, Randolph B, 2003, “Asset Allocation Decisions of Individuals and Institutions,”
Harvard Business School working paper.
Cohen, Randolph B, Paul Gompers, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2002, “Who Underreacts
to Cash-flow News? Evidence From Trading Between Individuals and Institutions,”
Journal of Financial Economics 66 409–462.
DeLong, J. Bradford, Andrei Shleifer, Lawrence H. Summers, and Robert J. Waldmann,
1990, Positive Feedback Investment Strategies and Destabilizing Rational Speculation,” Journal of Finance 45 379–395.
Edelen, Roger and Jerold Warner, “Aggregate Price Effects of Institutional Trading: A
Study of Mutual Fund Flow and Market Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics 59
195–220.
Fama, Eugene F., 1965, “The Behavior of Stock-Market Prices,” Journal of Business, 38,
34–105
Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 2015, “A Five-factor Asset Pricing Model,”
Journal of Financial Economics 116 1–22.
Farhi, Emmanuel and Iv´an Werning, 2016, A Theory of Macroprudential Policies in the
Presence of Nominal Rigidities,” Econometrica 84 1645–1704.
Fontanier, Paul, 2022, “Optimal Policy for Behavioral Financial Crises,” Yale University
Working Paper.
French, Kenneth R., 1980, “Stock Returns and the Weekend Effect,” Journal of Financial
Economics 8 55–69.
French, Kenneth R. and Richard Roll, 1986, “Stock Return Variances: The Arrival of
Information of the Reaction of Traders,” Journal of Financial Economics 17 5–26.
Fuster, Andreas, Benjamin Hebert, and David Laibson, 2012, Natural Expectations, Macroeconomic Dynamics, and Asset Pricing,” NBER Macroeconomics Annual 26 1–48.
Gabaix, Xavier and Ralph Koijen, 2020, “In Search of the Origins of Financial Fluctuations:
The Inelastic Markets Hypothesis,” University of Chicago Working Paper.
Gompers, Paul and Andrew Metrick, 2001, “Institutional Investors and Asset Prices,”
Quarterly Journal of Economics 116 229–259.
25
Greenwood, Robin and Andrei Shleifer, 2014, “Expectations of Returns and Expected Returns.” Review of Financial Studies 27 714–746.
Haddad, Valentin and Tyler Muir, 2021, “Do Intermediaries Matter for Aggregate Asset
Prices?,” Journal of Finance 76 2719–2761.
Hodrick, Robert, 1992, “Dividend Yields and Expected Stock Returns: Alternative Procedures for Inference and Measurement,” Review of Financial Studies 5 357–386.
Hong, Harrison and Jeremy Stein (1999). “A Unified Theory of Underreaction, Momentum
Trading, and Overreaction in Asset Markets,” The Journal of Finance 54 2143–2184.
Jagannathan, Ravi and Zhenyu Wang, 1996, “The Conditional CAPM and the Cross-section
of Stock Returns,” Journal of Finance 51 3–53.
Kelly, Michael and Steven Clark, 2011, “Returns in Trading Versus Non-Trading Hours:
The Difference Is Day and Night,” Journal of Asset Management 12 132–145.
Lettau, Martin and Sydney Ludvigson, 2001, “Consumption, Aggregate Wealth, and Expected Stock Returns,” Journal of Finance 56 815–849.
Lewellen, Jonathan, 2004, “Predicting Returns with Financial Ratios,” Journal of Financial
Economics 74 209–235.
Lewellen, Jonathan and Stefan Nagel, 2006, “The Conditional CAPM Does Not Explain
Asset-pricing Anomalies,” Journal of Financial Economics 82 289–314.
Lou, Dong and Christopher Polk, 2022, “Comomentum: Inferring Arbitrage Activity from
Return Correlations,” Review of Financial Studies 35 3372–3302.
Lou, Dong, Christopher Polk, and Spyros Skouras, 2019, “A Tug of War: Overnight Versus
Intraday Expected Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics 134 192–213.
Martin, Ian, 2017, “What is the Expected Return on the Market?,” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 132 367–433.
Nelson, Charles R. and Myung J. Kim, 1993, “Predictable Stock Returns: The Role of
Small Sample Bias,” Journal of Finance 48 641–661.
Parker, Jonathan, Antoinette Schoar, and Yang Sun, 2021, “Retail Financial Innovation
and Stock Market Dynamics: The Case of Target Date Funds,” MIT Working Paper.
Polk, Christopher, Sam Thompson, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2006, “Cross-sectional Forecasts of the Equity Premium,” Journal of Financial Economics 81 101–141.
Rabin, Matthew and Dimitri Vayanos (2010). “The Gambler’s and Hot-hand Fallacies:
Theory and Applications,” The Review of Economic Studies 77 730–778.
Stambaugh, Robert F., 1999. Predictive Regressions,” Journal of Financial Economics 54,
375–421.
26
Tao, Cai and Mei Qiu, 2008, “The International Evidence of the Overnight Return Anomaly,”
Massey University working paper.
Torous, Walter, Rossen Valkanov, and Shu Yan, 2005, “On Predicting Stock Returns with
Nearly Integrated Explanatory Variables,” Journal of Business 77 937–966.
Vayanos, Dimitri and Paul Woolley, 2013, “An Institutional Theory of Momentum and
Reversal,” Review of Financial Studies 26 1087–1145.
Warther Vincent A., 1995, “Aggregate Mutual Fund Flows and Security Returns,” Journal
of Financial Economics 39 209–235.
Wang, Jiang, 1996, “The Term Structure of Interest Rates In A Pure Exchange Economy
With Heterogeneous Investors,” Journal of Financial Economics 41 75–110.
27
Figure 1. This figure shows the PE ratio and smoothed (exponential-weighted 
average) overnight/intraday returns for the period 1993-2019. 
Figure 2. The figure shows the time series of smoothed overnight and intraday 
returns together with our measure of intermediary risk tolerance. 
Figure 3. The figure shows the time-series of expected overnight and intraday 
returns from the VAR in Table IX. The first panel plots the time-series of return 
forecasts while the second panel plots the sum of those component forecasts, 
comparing it to the close-to-close forecast from a benchmark PE-only VAR. 
Figure 4 Panel A. This figure plots the cumulative returns of an investment in the 
stock market (“total” black line), an investment in the market during only 
overnight periods (“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods 
(“intra”, green line) in 2020 (the COVID-19 pandemic). 
Figure 4 Panel B. This figure plots the cumulative returns of an investment in the 
stock market (“total” black line), an investment in the market during only 
overnight periods (“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods 
(“intra”, green line) in the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). 
Figure 4 Panel C. This figure plots the cumulative returns of an investment in the 
stock market (“total” black line), an investment in the market during only 
overnight periods (“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods 
(“intra”, green line) in the NASDAQ bubble. 
 
Figure 5 Panel A. This figure plots the cumulative log returns of an investment in 
the AMC (“total” black line), an investment in AMC during only overnight periods 
(“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods (“intra”, green 
line) in the meme stock subperiod. 
Figure 5 Panel B. This figure plots the cumulative log returns of an investment in 
the GameStop (“total” black line), an investment in GameStop during only 
overnight periods (“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods 
(“intra”, green line) in the meme stock subperiod. 
 
Figure 5 Panel C. This figure plots the cumulative log returns of an investment in 
the Bed, Bath, and Beyond (“total” black line), an investment in Bed, Bath, and 
Beyond during only overnight periods (“over”, red line), and an investment during 
only intraday periods (“intra”, green line) in the meme stock subperiod. 
Figure 5 Panel D. This figure plots the cumulative log returns of an investment in 
Koss (“total” black line), an investment in Koss during only overnight periods 
(“over”, red line), and an investment during only intraday periods (“intra”, green 
line) in the meme stock subperiod. 
Table I. Summary Statistics 
This table reports summary statistics of our main variables at the quarterly frequency. RMRF, 
Intraday RMRF, Overnight RMRF are the quarterly close-to-close, overnight and intraday market 
returns. PE is the standard price-to-earnings ratio. EWMA Intraday, EWMA Overnight, and 
EWMA earnings are the exponential weighted moving average of Intraday RMRF, Overnight 
RMRF, and quarterly earnings growth, all with a half-life of roughly 7 years. CAY and VS are the 
Lettau and Ludvigson (2001) consumption-to-wealth ratio and the value spread, respectively. 
RVOL is the realized daily market volatility in the quarter. Cons. Growth is the quarterly 
consumption growth and Intermediary RT is a measure accumulating the intermediary risk 
tolerance shocks of Adrian et al. (2014). Panel A reports the summary statistics of our main 
variables, and Panel B reports the correlation matrix. The sample period is 1993Q3 to 2019Q4.
Panel A: Summary Statistics 
mean stdev P25 Median P75 
RMRF 0.018 0.082 -0.024 0.027 0.061 
RMRFIntraday 0.000 0.066 -0.040 0.001 0.042 
RMRFOvernight 0.018 0.045 0.000 0.024 0.042 
PE 3.404 0.232 3.259 3.395 3.517 
EWMAIntraday 0.000 0.001 -0.001 0.000 0.001 
EWMAOvernight 0.005 0.001 0.005 0.005 0.006 
EWMAEarn 0.013 0.006 0.009 0.013 0.019 
CAY -0.003 0.016 -0.015 -0.001 0.009 
VS 1.567 0.178 1.411 1.596 1.680 
RVOL 1.061 0.571 0.675 0.899 1.303 
Cons. Growth 0.005 0.005 0.002 0.005 0.007 
Intermediary RT 0.975 1.689 -0.262 0.808 2.393 
Panel B1: Correlation Matrix 
 RMRF RMRFIntra RMRFOver PE EWMAIntra EWMAOver EWMAEarn
RMRF 1 
RMRFIntraday 0.84 1 
RMRFOvernight 0.58 0.05 1 
PE 0.13 -0.12 0.43 1 
EWMAIntraday 0.44 0.23 0.46 0.53 1 
EWMAOvernight -0.22 -0.35 0.13 0.66 -0.07 1 
EWMAEarn -0.01 -0.06 0.07 0.07 0.50 0.09 1 
Panel B2: Correlation Matrix 
 EWMAIntra EWMAOver CAY VS RVOL Cons. 
Growth Inter. RT 
EWMAIntra 1 
EWMAOver -0.07 1 
CAY -0.39 0.18 1 
VS 0.28 0.17 -0.55 1 
RVOL -0.49 -0.03 0.41 0.04 1 
Cons. Growth 0.55 0.20 0.02 -0.05 -0.41 1 
Inter. RT 0.18 0.54 0.35 0.07 0.12 0.29 1 
Table II. Decomposing the PE Ratio 
This table reports regressions explaining the PE ratio. The dependent variable in all columns is the 
price-to-earnings ratio in quarter t. The main independent variables are the log cumulative overnight 
return, the log cumulative intraday return, the log cumulative earning growth, 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧,
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ , and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ . 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ , 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ , and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ are 
standardized to have a mean of zero and standard deviation of one. Newey-West standard errors 
with 12 lags are reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance at the 
10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The sample period is 1997Q3 to 2019Q4 to allow a four-year 
burn-in period for the calculation of the exponentially weighted moving averages. 
Decomposing the PE Ratio 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] 
𝐿𝑛ሺ𝐶𝑢𝑚𝑅𝑒𝑡௢௩௘௥ሻ 0.98*** 
 [76.98] 
𝐿𝑛ሺ𝐶𝑢𝑚𝑅𝑒𝑡ூ௡௧௥௔ሻ 0.98*** 
 [85.22] 
𝐿𝑛ሺ𝐸/𝐸଴ሻ -1.00*** 
 [-78.38] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ 0.15*** 0.16*** 0.17*** 
[8.32] [13.94] [20.59] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.12*** 0.14*** 0.18*** 
 [5.92] [11.53] [18.54] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ 0.02 -0.09*** 
 [0.67] [-9.17] 
 
Adj-R2
 99.2% 43.4% 27.7% -0.6% 77.4% 88.4% 
Table III. Forecasting Future Market Returns 
This table reports regressions forecasting the excess return on the market as well as its intraday 
and overnight components. PE is the standard price-to-earnings ratio. 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ ,
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬, and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ are the exponential weighted moving average of intraday RMRF, 
overnight RMRF, and quarterly earnings growth, all with a half-life of roughly 7 years. CAY and 
VS are the Lettau and Ludvigson (2001) consumption-to-wealth ratio and the value spread, 
respectively. RVOL is the realized daily market volatility in the quarter. The dependent variable 
in Panel A is the next-quarter close-to-close excess market return; the dependent variable in Panel 
B is the next-quarter intraday excess market return, and in Panel C, the dependent variable is the 
overnight excess market return. All independent variables are standardized to have a mean of zero 
and standard deviation of one. Newey-West standard errors with 12 lags are reported below each 
estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
The sample period is 1997Q3 to 2019Q4 to allow a four-year burn-in period for the calculation of 
the exponentially weighted moving averages.
Panel A: Forecasting Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] 
𝑃𝐸 -0.017* 
 [-1.77] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.032*** -0.030*** -0.031*** -0.029*** 
[-5.53] [-5.10] [-5.33] [-3.83] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.006 0.003 0.007 0.010 
[0.74] [0.50] [0.54] [1.11] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ -0.002 
 [-0.18] 
𝐶𝐴𝑌 -0.004 
 [-0.36] 
𝑉𝑆 -0.007 
 [-0.64] 
𝑅𝑉𝑂𝐿 0.007 
 [0.43] 
 
Adj-R2
 3.0% 14.1% 11.7% 13.1% 11.6% 
Panel B: Forecasting Intraday Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] 
𝑃𝐸 -0.025*** 
 [-4.88] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.022*** -0.018*** -0.023*** -0.018*** 
[-5.67] [-3.31] [-5.86] [-3.94] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ -0.013** -0.011** -0.017* -0.011** 
[-2.34] [-2.25] [-1.70] [-2.20] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ 0.007 
 [0.74] 
𝐶𝐴𝑌 -0.013* 
 [-1.95] 
𝑉𝑆 -0.004 
 [-0.59] 
𝑅𝑉𝑂𝐿 0.011 
 [0.83] 
 
Adj-R2
 14.4% 12.9% 7.9% 12.8% 12.7% 
Panel C: Forecasting Overnight Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] 
𝑃𝐸 0.010* 
 [1.81] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.009* -0.011** -0.008 -0.010** 
[-1.65] [-2.26] [-1.52] [-2.07] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.020*** 0.015*** 0.025*** 0.022*** 
[3.96] [3.30] [4.93] [4.01] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௘௔௥௡ -0.010* 
 [-1.74] 
𝐶𝐴𝑌 0.009 
 [1.33] 
𝑉𝑆 -0.003 
 [-0.42] 
𝑅𝑉𝑂𝐿 -0.005 
 [-0.91] 
 
Adj-R2
 3.5% 22.2% 16.5% 24.6% 24.8% 
Table IV. A Conditional CAPM Model 
This table reports time-series regressions of common factor returns on market returns. The 
dependent variables in the first four columns are the monthly returns on the Fama French size, 
value, investment, profitability factors, respectively. The dependent variable in the fifth column is 
the equal-weighted average return of the Fama French four factors, the dependent variable in the 
sixth column is the momentum factor return, and the dependent variable in the seventh column is 
the betting-against-beta factor return. In Panel A, we simply regress these factor returns on the 
contemporaneous market return. In Panel B, we also interact the market return with lagged 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ (as conditioning variables, both standardized to mean of zero 
and standard deviation of 1). In Panel C, we further include lagged 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ in the regression to forecast the conditional CAPM alpha. A four-year burn-in period 
is used to calculate 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ , so strategy returns cover 1997Q3 to 
2019Q4. All returns are expressed in percentage terms. 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ are 
standardized to have a mean of zero and standard deviation of one. Newey-West standard errors 
with 12 lags are reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance at the 
10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
Panel A: Unconditional CAPM Regressions 
𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ାଵ 𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ାଵ 𝑅𝑀𝑊௧ାଵ 𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ାଵ 𝐸𝑊 𝐹𝐹 𝑀𝑂𝑀௧ାଵ 𝐵𝐴𝐵௧ାଵ
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] 
Constant (%) 0.200 0.596 1.602*** 0.959** 0.837** 1.773** 1.746** 
 [0.41] [0.85] [3.29] [2.16] [2.22] [1.96] [1.99] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ 0.184*** -0.133* -0.380*** -0.156*** -0.121*** -0.357*** -1.024*** 
[3.27] [-1.70] [-6.82] [-3.08] [-2.81] [-3.45] [-10.19] 
 
Adj-R2
 9.9% 2.1% 34.1% 8.8% 7.3% 11.0% 53.9% 
Panel B: Conditional CAPM Regressions 
𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ାଵ 𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ାଵ 𝑅𝑀𝑊௧ାଵ 𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ାଵ 𝐸𝑊 𝐹𝐹 𝑀𝑂𝑀௧ାଵ 𝐵𝐴𝐵௧ାଵ
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] 
Constant (%) -0.080 -0.530 0.879* 0.283 0.138 1.785** 0.887 
 [-0.15] [-0.87] [1.80] [0.71] [0.42] [2.00] [0.96] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ 0.193*** -0.139** -0.336*** -0.167*** -0.112*** -0.217** -0.971*** 
[3.14] [-1.97] [-5.93] [-3.62] [-2.94] [-2.10] [-9.03] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ ∗ -0.080 -0.361*** -0.184*** -0.226*** -0.213*** 0.150* -0.218*** 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥,௧ [-1.58] [-6.23] [-3.95] [-5.97] [-6.79] [1.76] [-2.47] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ ∗ 0.003 -0.089 0.057 -0.070* -0.025 0.336*** 0.069 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔,௧ [0.06] [-1.47] [1.18] [-1.77] [-0.75] [3.80] [0.75] 
 
Adj-R2
 10.5% 34.1% 43.2% 37.7% 39.8% 26.0% 56.1% 
Panel C: Conditional CAPM with Additional Timing Variables 
𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ାଵ 𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ାଵ 𝑅𝑀𝑊௧ାଵ 𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ାଵ 𝐸𝑊 𝐹𝐹 𝑀𝑂𝑀௧ାଵ 𝐵𝐴𝐵௧ାଵ
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] 
Constant (%) -0.151 -0.608 0.844* 0.208 0.073 1.644* 0.809 
 [-0.30] [-1.00] [1.71] [0.53] [0.23] [1.89] [0.88] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥,௧ 0.843* 0.815 0.399 0.826** 0.721** 1.445 0.762 
 [1.70] [1.36] [0.82] [2.13] [2.26] [1.68] [0.84] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔,௧ -1.394*** 0.636 -0.279 -0.010 -0.262 1.760** 1.706** 
[-2.91] [1.10] [-0.60] [-0.03] [-0.85] [2.13] [1.96] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ 0.256*** -0.115 -0.314*** -0.130*** -0.076* -0.186* -0.969*** 
[4.09] [-1.53] [-5.12] [-2.67] [-1.90] [-1.72] [-8.50] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ ∗ -0.061 -0.376*** -0.182*** -0.230*** -0.212*** 0.114 -0.249*** 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥,௧ [-1.26] [-6.41] [-3.82] [-6.07] [-6.82] [1.36] [-2.82] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ାଵ ∗ 0.032 -0.106* 0.062 -0.072* -0.021 0.291*** 0.028 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔,௧ [0.63] [-1.72] [1.25] [-1.82] [-0.64] [3.30] [0.30] 
 
Adj-R2
 20.0% 34.8% 42.6% 39.5% 42.6% 30.1% 57.2% 
Table V. Pricing Tests: In-Sample and Out-of-Sample Evidence 
This table reports OLS regressions of the returns from a managed investment in the excess market 
return on various factor models, which use combinations of Fama-French market, size, value, 
investment, profitability, and momentum factors. In Panel A, the investment in the market is scaled 
by minus the standardized (mean zero, standard deviation one) exponentially weighted moving 
average of the overnight return, with a half-life of roughly 7 years. In Panel B, the standardization 
uses an expanding sample up to the investment date. A four-year burn-in period for the 
standardization is also used, so strategy returns cover 1997Q3 to 2019Q4. Newey-West standard 
errors with 12 lags are reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance 
at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
Panel A: In-Sample Analysis 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] 
Alpha 0.021*** 0.018*** 0.013*** 0.014*** 
[2.75] [3.91] [2.99] [3.16] 
RMRF -0.399** -0.325*** -0.242** -0.265** 
[-2.12] [-3.00] [-2.09] [-2.32] 
SMB -0.001 0.027 0.005 
 [-0.01] [0.20] [0.04] 
HML 0.538*** 0.313*** 0.252** 
 [5.22] [2.83] [2.29] 
RMW 0.170 0.192* 
 [1.47] [1.82] 
CMA 0.356* 0.399** 
 [1.87] [2.03] 
MOM -0.097 
 [-1.15] 
 
Adj-R2
 24.3% 47.6% 50.0% 50.7% 
Panel B: Out-of-Sample Analysis 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] 
Alpha 0.016*** 0.013*** 0.008** 0.010** 
[2.68] [3.58] [2.08] [2.43] 
RMRF -0.494** -0.424*** -0.340** -0.390*** 
[-2.51] [-3.51] [-2.54] [-2.64] 
SMB -0.023 0.022 -0.006 
 [-0.20] [0.15] [-0.05] 
HML 0.522*** 0.300*** 0.177* 
 [5.39] [2.71] [1.79] 
RMW 0.183 0.224** 
 [1.44] [2.09] 
CMA 0.338** 0.436*** 
 [2.32] [2.72] 
MOM -0.179** 
 [-1.96] 
 
Adj-R2
 34.3% 56.0% 58.2% 62.0% 
Table VI. Explaining Individual Investors’ Expectations 
This table reports regressions of individual investors’ expectations on smoothed overnight and 
intraday returns. The dependent variable in all columns is individual investors’ expectations of 
future market returns (following Greenwood and Shleifer, 2014). The main independent variables 
are the smoothed intraday market returns and smoothed overnight market returns measured in the 
previous quarter. 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ are standardized to have a mean of zero 
and standard deviation of one. Newey-West standard errors with 12 lags are reported below each 
estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. 
The sample period is 1997Q3 to 2019Q4 to allow a four-year burn-in period for the calculation of 
the exponentially weighted moving averages.
Explaining Individual Investors’ Expectations 
 [1] [2] [3] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.471*** 0.471*** 
 [3.41] [3.52] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ 0.065 0.059 
[0.38] [0.52] 
 
Adj-R2
 20.8% -1.3% 19.8% 
Table VII. Consumption Growth and Market Returns 
This table reports the lead-lag relations between quarterly consumption growth rates and overnight 
and intraday market returns. In Panel A, the dependent variable is the consumption growth rate 
measured in quarters t-2 to t+2. The main independent variables are the overnight and intraday 
components of the excess market return in quarter t. In Panels B and C, the dependent variables 
are the overnight and intraday components of the excess market return measured in quarters t-2 
to t+2, respectively, and the main independent variable is the consumption growth rate in quarter 
t. Newey-West standard errors with 12 lags are reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate 
statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The sample period is 1993Q3 to 
2019Q4.
Panel A: Consumption Growth 
 t-2 t-1 t t+1 t+2 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ -0.031% -0.041% 0.045% 0.041% 0.039% 
 [-0.64] [-0.84] [0.91] [0.70] [0.81] 
𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ 0.133%*** 0.180%*** 0.183%*** 0.154%** 0.132%** 
 [2.55] [2.80] [2.55] [2.35] [1.93] 
 
Adj-R2
 7.2% 14.9% 15.6% 10.6% 7.4% 
Panel B: Intraday RMRF 
 t-2 t-1 t t+1 t+2 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠. 𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ 0.357% 0.822% 0.710% -0.760% -0.387% 
 [0.55] [1.14] [1.02] [-0.86] [-0.58] 
 
Adj-R2
 -0.7% 0.7% 0.2% 0.4% -0.6% 
Panel C: Overnight RMRF 
 t-2 t-1 t t+1 t+2 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠. 𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ 1.327%*** 1.491%*** 1.799%*** 1.855%*** 1.235%*** 
 [2.84] [3.53] [3.94] [4.88] [2.61] 
 
Adj-R2
 8.0% 10.4% 15.6% 16.6% 4.6% 
Table VIII. Horse Races Forecasting Excess Market Returns 
This table reports regressions forecasting the excess market returns and its intraday and overnight 
components. 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ are the exponential weighted moving average of 
past overnight RMRF and past intraday RMRF respectively with a half-life of roughly 7 years. 
Individual Investor Expectations are obtained from the Gallop survey. Cons. Growth is quarterly 
consumption growth, and Intermediary RT is a measure accumulating the intermediary risk 
tolerance shocks of Adrian et al. (2014). The dependent variable in Panel A is the next-quarter 
close-to-close excess market return; the dependent variable in Panel B is the next-quarter intraday 
excess market return, and in Panel C it is the overnight excess market return. All independent 
variables are standardized to have a mean of zero and standard deviation of one. Newey-West 
standard errors with 12 lags are reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical 
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The sample period is 1997Q3 to 2019Q4 
to allow a four-year burn-in period for the calculation of the exponentially weighted moving 
averages.
Panel A: Forecasting Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.032*** -0.038*** -0.038** 
 [-5.53] [-5.30] [-5.02] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.006 0.008 0.002 
 [0.74] [0.75] [0.34] 
𝐼𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑣.𝐼𝑛𝑣. 𝐸𝑥𝑝. 0.003 0.001 
[0.28] [0.12] 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠. 𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ 0.008 0.017 
 [0.64] [1.42] 
𝐼𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑚𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑎𝑟𝑦 𝑅𝑇 -0.021*** -0.009 
 [-2.82] [-1.11] 
 
Adj-R2
 14.1% -1.2% 13.1% -0.3% 5.4% 15.5% 
Panel B: Forecasting Intraday Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.022*** -0.024*** -0.021*** 
 [-5.67] [-5.21] [-3.70] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ -0.013** -0.019*** -0.014** 
 [-2.34] [-3.09] [-2.55] 
𝐼𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑣.𝐼𝑛𝑣. 𝐸𝑥𝑝. -0.010 -0.002 
[-1.12] [-0.17] 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠. 𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ -0.010 0.002 
 [-1.1] [0.21] 
𝐼𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑚𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑎𝑟𝑦 𝑅𝑇 -0.017*** -0.003 
 [-2.64] [-0.45] 
 
Adj-R2
 12.9% 0.7% 15.9% 1.4% 5.5% 11.1% 
Panel C: Forecasting Overnight Excess Market Returns 
 [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [7] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.009* -0.013** -0.009* 
 [-1.65] [-2.42] [-1.97] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.020*** 0.027*** 0.012** 
 [3.96] [4.23] [2.22] 
𝐼𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑣.𝐼𝑛𝑣. 𝐸𝑥𝑝. 0.014*** 0.004 
[2.85] [0.79] 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠. 𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ 0.019*** 0.016*** 
 [4.88] [3.53] 
𝐼𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑚𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑎𝑟𝑦 𝑅𝑇 -0.004 -0.005 
 [-0.64] [-1.13] 
 
Adj-R2
 22.2% 7.3% 33.0% 16.5% -0.4% 28.9% 
Table IX. Cash-Flow and Discount-Rate News 
This table reports a vector autoregression (VAR) and the associated Campbell (1991) decomposition 
of market returns into cash flow and discount rate news, with the latter being further decomposed 
in to intraday and overnight components. 𝑟௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ and 𝑟௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ are, respectively, the quarterly 
intraday and overnight market returns. 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ and 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ are the exponentially 
weighted moving average of past 𝑟௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬, and 𝑟௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧, respectively, with a half-life of roughly 7 
years. Panel A reports the VAR estimates, and Panel B shows the standard deviations and 
correlations of the various return components. Newey-West standard errors with 12 lags are 
reported below each estimate. *, **, and *** indicate statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 
1% levels, respectively. The sample period is 1997Q3 to 2019Q4 to allow a four-year burn-in period 
for the calculation of the exponentially weighted moving averages.
Panel A: VAR Analysis 
 𝑟௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 𝑟௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧
 [1] [2] [3] [4] 
constant 0.120*** 0.055** 0.096*** 0.040** 
 [3.46] [2.38] [3.38] [2.02] 
𝑟௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ -0.147 0.056 -0.121 0.044 
 [-1.38] [0.79] [-1.38] [0.73] 
𝑟௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.138 0.055 -0.107 0.053 
 [-0.85] [0.50] [-0.81] [0.58] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௜௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ -0.052 0.126*** 0.933*** 0.106*** 
 [-0.99] [3.56] [21.69] [3.55] 
𝐸𝑊𝑀𝐴௢௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.226*** -0.073* -0.179*** 0.931*** 
 [-3.52] [-1.70] [-3.41] [25.57] 
 
Adj-R2
 13.2% 21.3% 87.6% 89.6% 
Panel B: Cash Flow vs. Discount Rate News
News Std. Dev./Corr. 𝑁௖௙ െ𝑁஽ோ_ூ௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ െ𝑁஽ோ_ை௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧
𝑁௖௙ 1.347% 0.542 -0.696 
െ𝑁஽ோ_ூ௡௧௥௔ௗ௔௬ 0.542 5.625% 0.177 
െ𝑁஽ோ_ை௩௘௥௡௜௚௛௧ -0.696 0.177 3.714% 