Best Ideas
Miguel Antón, Randolph B. Cohen, and Christopher Polk∗
This Draft: April 2021
∗Antón: Department of Finance, IESE Business School, Av. Pearson 21, 08034 Barcelona. Email: manton@iese.edu; Cohen: Department of Finance, Harvard Business School, Boston MA 02163. Email: rbcohen@hbs.edu. Polk (corresponding author): Department of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A
2AE. Email: c.polk@lse.ac.uk. We are grateful to Ken French for providing us with some of the data used in this
study. A very special thanks goes to Tapio Pekkala and Bernhard Silli who were instrumental in producing an
earlier version of this paper. Polk gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Paul Woolley Center at the
LSE. Antón gratefully acknowledges the financial support of the Department of Economy and Knowledge of the
Generalitat de Catalunya (Ref. 2014 SGR 1496), and of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness
(Ref. ECO2015-63711-P). We thank seminar participants at Boston College, Exeter University, Harvard University,
London School of Economics, University of British Columbia, University of California San Diego, Yale University,
and the NBER Behavioral Finance meeting for helpful comments and ML Cooper for copy editing. All errors are
our own.
Best Ideas
Abstract
We find that the stocks in which active mutual fund or hedge fund managers display the
most conviction towards ex-ante, their “Best ideas,” outperform the market, as well as the other
stocks in those managers’ portfolios, by approximately 2.8 to 4.5 percent per year, depending on
the benchmark employed. The vast majority of the other stocks managers hold do not exhibit
significant outperformance. Thus, the organization of the money management industry appears to
make it optimal for managers to introduce stocks into their portfolio that are not outperformers.
We argue that investors would benefit if managers held more concentrated portfolios.
JEL classification: G11, G23
I Introduction
When asked to discuss their portfolio, the typical investment manager will identify a position therein and proceed to describe the opportunity and the investment thesis with tremendous
conviction and enthusiasm. Frequently the listener is overwhelmed by the persuasiveness of the
presentation. This discussion leads to a natural follow-up question: how many investments make
up the portfolio? Informed that the answer is, e.g., 150, the questioner will often wonder how anyone could possess such depth of knowledge and passion for so many disparate companies. Pressed
to explain, investment managers have been known to sheepishly confess that their portfolio contains a few core high conviction positions–the best ideas–and then a large number of additional
positions which may provide less expected abnormal return but which serve to “round out” the
portfolio.
This paper attempts to identify ex ante which of the investments in managers’ portfolios were
their best ideas and to evaluate the performance of those investments. We find that best ideas not
only generate statistically and economically significant risk-adjusted returns over time but they
also systematically outperform the rest of the positions in managers’ portfolios. We find this result
is consistent across many specifications: different benchmarks, different risk models, and different
definitions of best ideas. The level of outperformance varies depending on the specification, but
for our primary tests falls in the range of 2.8 to 4.5 percent per year. This abnormal performance
appears permanent, showing no evidence of subsequent reversal, even several years later.
Interestingly, cross-sectional tests indicate that active managers’ best ideas are most effective
in illiquid, growth, momentum stocks, or for funds that have outperformed in the past. We also
document similar results in a sample of hedge funds; those managers’ best ideas outperform in a
similar fashion. Moreover, we find that the same characteristics that spread performance in best
ideas in mutual funds also spread performance in hedge funds. In addition, we document striking
heterogeneity in the performance of hedge fund ideas based on fund size. The best ideas of small
funds outperform those of large funds by a remarkable 15 percent per year.
We argue that these findings have powerful implications for our understanding of stock market
efficiency. Previous research has generally found that money managers do not outperform benchmarks net of fees. Many years ago, Mark Rubinstein referred to this fact as the efficient-markets
faction’s “nuclear bomb” against the “puny rifles” of those who argue risk-adjusted returns are
forecastable (but see Berk and Green (2004) for reasons to reconsider this way of thinking). Other
work, e.g. Wermers (2000), has shown quite modest outperformance of around one percent per
year for the stocks selected by managers (ignoring all fees and costs). In contrast, our paper makes
an important contribution by presenting evidence that the typical active manager can select stocks
that deliver economically large abnormal returns (relative to our risk models).
Consequently, this paper’s findings are relevant for the optimal behavior of investors in managed
funds. Our results suggest that while the typical manager has a small number of good investment
ideas that provide positive alpha in expectation, the remaining ideas in the typical managed
portfolio add little or no alpha. Managers have clear incentives to include zero-alpha positions.
Without them, the portfolio would contain only a few names, leading to increased volatility, price
impact, illiquidity, and regulatory/litigation risk. In particular, adding additional stocks to the
portfolio can reduce volatility, increasing portfolio Sharpe ratio. Perhaps most importantly, adding
names enables the manager to take in more assets, and thus draw greater management fees. The
manager gains from diversifying the portfolio, but the typical investor is often worse off because
they likely have only a modest fraction of their assets in any one fund.
Based on these observations, we examine optimal decentralized investment when managerial
skill is consistent with our evidence on the performance of best ideas. We show that under realistic
assumptions, investors can gain substantially if managers choose less-diversified portfolios that tilt
more towards their best ideas.
2
II Related Literature
There are several reasons why examining total portfolio performance may be misleading concerning stock-picking skills. First, manager compensation is often tied to the size of the fund’s
holdings. As a consequence, managers may have incentive to continue investing fund capital after
their supply of alpha-generating ideas has run out. This tension was studied by, among others,
Berk and Green (2004). Second, the very nature of fund evaluation may cause managers to hold
some or even many stocks on which they have neutral views concerning future performance. In
particular, since managers may be penalized for exposing investors to idiosyncratic risk, diversification may cause managers to hold some stocks not because they increase the average risk-adjusted
return on the portfolio but simply because these stocks reduce overall portfolio volatility. Third,
open end mutual funds provide a liquidity service to investors. Edelen (1999) provides evidence
that liquidity management is a major concern for fund managers and that performance evaluation
methods should take it into account. Alexander et al. (2007) show explicitly that fund managers
trade-off liquidity against valuation motives when making investment decisions. Finally, even if
managers were to only hold stocks that they expect will outperform, it is likely that they believe
that some of these bets are better than others.
Sharpe (1981); Elton and Gruber (2004); and van Binsbergen, Brandt, and Koijen (2008) study
the way myopic decision rules for decentralized investment management can lead to suboptimal
outcomes. Theoretical work by Van Nieuwerburgh and Veldkamp (2010) has highlighted the
importance of specialization in managerial information acquisition. Their study shows that returns
to such specialization imply that investors should not hold diversified portfolios. Our results may
help to shed some light on Van Nieuwerburgh and Veldkamp’s (2010) conclusions.
There are several empirical papers with findings related to ours. Evidence that managers select stocks well can be found in Wermers (2000), Chen, Jegadeesh, and Wermers (2000), Cohen,
Gompers, and Vuolteenaho (2002) and Massa, Reuter, and Zitzewitz (2010). Evidence that man3
agers who focus on a limited area of expertise outperform more than the typical manager can be
found in Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005). Cremers and Petajisto (2009) demonstrate that
the share of portfolio holdings that differ from the benchmark (what they define as active share)
forecasts a fund’s abnormal return.
Other research suggests that extracting managers’ beliefs about expected returns from portfolio
holdings might be useful. For example, Shumway, Szefler, and Yuan (2009) show that the precision
of the implied beliefs from a manager’s holdings concerning expected returns helps to identify
successful managers. Pomorski (2009) shows that when multiple funds belonging to the same
company trade the same stock in the same direction, that stock outperforms. Jiang, Verbeek, and
Wang (2014) find that stocks that are overweighted by the mutual fund industry in the aggregate
outperform. Wermers, Yao, and Zhao (2012) document that stocks that are held in greater weight
by previously-successful managers than by less-successful managers tend to perform well.
Our paper has two primary novel contributions.
1. While we are not the first to show that managers are capable of successfully selecting outperforming stocks, we think we are the first to document that the typical manager can identify
a set of stocks that outperform over and above average levels of trading costs and fees.
Wermers (2000) and similar subsequent work found managers picking stocks that deliver
1-1.5% alpha, leaving net returns to investors below the index. We show that in the stocks
managers identify via the weights they choose as their best ideas, outperformance is much
higher, 2.8-4.5% per year, easily enough to deliver substantial alpha after fees and trading
costs. Later work, some referenced in the previous paragraph, finds effects as large as ours
if we select stocks by taking advantage of the information embedded in the holdings of all
mutual fund managers. These “wisdom of crowds” results are in a separate category from
ours, as we show that ordinary individual managers – not superstar managers, or thousands
of managers working in concert, but just single, average managers working on their own –
have the ability to select one or more stocks that will likely generate net alpha for investors.
4
2. Our paper explores the implications of our novel and surprising finding that a typical active
manager’s value added primarily comes from their handful of best ideas rather than from
their entire 100-plus-positions portfolio. We develop a simple framework that illustrates how
large the benefits to investors can be if managers concentrate their portfolios in their best
ideas. Under reasonable conditions consistent with our findings, we show that investing in
just the managers’ best ideas will double the Sharpe ratio of an investor’s portfolio relative
to the case where managers maximize the Sharpe ratio of their individual funds. This effect
is much larger than might be suggested by standard intuition.
III Methodology
We proceed in three stages. First, for each stock in a manager’s portfolio, we attempt to
estimate from the portfolio choices the manager made what CAPM alpha and information ratio
the manager believed that stock would deliver. Then, we label each manager’s holding with the
highest estimated information ratio as their “best idea,” and form each period the portfolio of all
managers’ best ideas. Finally, we test the performance of this “best ideas” portfolio.
To formally motivate our approach to extracting the best ideas of portfolio managers, we first
consider a simple portfolio optimization problem. A manager is selecting a portfolio from a set
of N risky assets. We assume their goal is to maximize portfolio Sharpe ratio. Let the vector of
portfolio weights be λt
. Then the manager must solve the problem:
max
λt
λ
0
t
(EtRt+1 − Rf,t+1ι) −
k
2
λ
0
tΩtλt
where ι is a vector of ones, (EtRt+1 −Rf,t+1ι) is the vector of expected excess returns on the N
risky assets over the riskless interest rate, Rf,t+1, and Ωt
is the return variance-covariance matrix.
The well-known solution to this maximization problem is
5
λt =
1
k
Ω
−1
t
(EtRt+1 − Rf,t+1ι)
One can reverse engineer this solution to find that the manager’s expected excess returns are
µt = (EtRt+1 − Rf,t+1ι) = k Ωtλt
. This formula holds for both the market (where µM t is a vector
of CAPM expected excess returns, kM is the market’s aggregate risk aversion, and λM t are market
weights) and any fund manager (where µf t is a vector of portfolio manager f’s expected excess
returns, kf is the manager’s risk aversion, and λf t is that manager’s portfolio weights): µf t = kf
Ωtλf t and µM t = kM ΩtλM t.
Although (as noted later) our approach does not require this assumption, for simplicity of
explication, we assume that risk aversion is homogeneous, kf = kM = k, and measure the difference
between the vector of the manager’s subjective expected excess returns and the vector of CAPM
expected excess returns: µf t −µM t = kΩt(λf t −λM t). This difference, µf t −µM t, is just the vector
of the manager’s subjective CAPM alphas. Renaming the portfolio alpha vector αf t and defining
tiltmarket
f t = λf t − λM t as the vector of over/underweights of the manager’s portfolio, we have:
αf t = kΩttiltmarket
f t
In order to make the problem of covariance estimation more tractable we make some strong
assumptions. Most important, we assume that all off-diagonal elements of the covariance matrix
are due to a single factor, the market return. We can then decompose the covariance matrix into
orthogonal components: Ωt = Σt+σ
2
M tBt
. Σt
is a diagonal matrix with the idiosyncratic variance
(σ
2
it) of each stock as its diagonal element, σM t is the volatility of the market, and Bt
is a matrix
whose (i, j) element equals βiβj where βk is the market beta of the kth stock.
We then make the additional simplifying assumption that all mutual funds in our sample have
a fund beta, βf , close to 1.0, the market beta, βM. When we post-multiply the Bt matrix by the
tiltmarket
f t vector, we get a column vector whose kth element is βk(βf−βM); if each portfolio has unit
beta these terms all equal zero and we are left with: αf t = kΣttiltmarket
f t . We use this expression
6
to estimate subjective alphas and therefore to select the ex-ante best idea(s) for manager f that
has the highest information ratio. We call this approach “market alpha.”
α
market
f t = kΣttiltmarket
f t
IRmarket
if t = α
market
if t /σit
bestmarket alpha
f t = arg max
i
IRmarket
if t
Using a multi-factor model or assuming funds have betas far from 1.0 are mathematically
straightforward extensions, but they clutter the explication. Moreover, given the difficulty of accurate covariance estimation, these complications may not increase the accuracy of our estimation
of managers’ subjective alpha. For similar reasons, we confirm that robustness checks based on
the assumption that all stocks have equal idiosyncratic risk provide qualitatively similar results.
Many investment managers are limited in the set of stocks that they consider investing in –
for example, a manager’s universe may consist only of large-cap stocks or of a particular industry
sector. In these cases, the relevant tilt is arguably not the overweight/underweight relative to
the market, but rather relative to the value-weight portfolio of stocks in the manager’s universe.
We choose as an alternative to our market alpha method, an approach we call “portfolio alpha.”
Here we simply use tiltportf olio
f t , the difference between the manager’s weight vector, λf t, and the
value-weight portfolio consisting only of stocks the manager actually holds, λfV t:
tiltportf olio
f t = λf t − λfV t
α
portf olio
f t = kΣttiltportf olio
f t
IRportf olio
if t = α
portf olio
if t /σit
bestportf olio alpha
f t = arg max
i
IRportf olio
if t
Although portfolio alpha is simplistic, it has powerful intuitive appeal. In particular, suppose
7
that a manager approaches portfolio selection the following way: first, identify a set G (“good”)
of stocks that they expect will perform well. Then, choose weights that maximize Sharpe Ratio
subject to the condition that no stock has negative weight, and all stocks not in G have zero
weight. If a manager uses this approach, using portfolio alpha as defined in the equations above
will provide an alpha measure that recovers the ranking of the manager’s subjective alpha. Based
on our conversations with money managers, we believe the heuristic described above is a good
approximation of manager behavior.
In our analysis, we typically report the performance of best ideas based on both a market alpha
and a portfolio alpha perspective. Our assumption of homogeneous risk aversion is without loss
of generality. As our focus is only on the ordinal aspects of a comparison between λf t and either
λM t or λfV t, a manager’s best idea does not depend on whether they are more or less risk averse
than the market.
In summary, we call the output of the first approach the market alpha and the second the
portfolio alpha. In the market method, a stock that is held in the same proportion it has in the
market is viewed as having zero expected alpha. In the portfolio method, a zero-alpha stock is one
held with a weight equal to its value weight within a portfolio of the stocks the manager holds. For
non-zero-alpha stocks, the magnitude of alpha depends not only on the degree of tilt towards that
particular stock but also on the magnitude of the stock’s market-model idiosyncratic variance.
IV Data and Sample
Our stock return data comes from CRSP (Center for Research for Security Prices) and covers
assets traded on the NYSE, AMEX and NASDAQ. We use the mutual fund holdings data from
Thompson Reuters. Our sample consists of US domestic equity funds that report their holdings in
the period from January 1983 to December 2018.1 The holdings data are gathered from quarterly
1Though the dataset begins in 1980, we start our analysis in 1983 so that the analysis discussed in Section V.C
and presented in Table IV that sorts best ideas into terciles does not result in thin portfolios with only a handful of
stocks. We have confirmed that our key result discussed in Section V.B and presented in Table II) that measures
8
filings of every U.S.- registered mutual fund with the Securities Exchange Commission. The
mandatory nature of these filings implies that we can observe the holdings of the vast majority of
funds that are in existence during that period. For a portfolio to be eligible for consideration, it
must have total equity investments exceeding $5 million and at least 5 recorded holdings.2
A crucial assumption of our analysis is that fund managers try to maximize the information
ratio of their portfolios. Therefore, we exclude portfolios that are unlikely to be managed with this
aim in mind, such as index or tax-managed funds.3 We also exclude international funds from the
sample. We identify best ideas as of the true holding date of the fund manager’s portfolio as we
are primarily interested in whether managers have stock-picking ability, not whether outsiders can
piggyback on the information content in managers’ holdings data.4 Of particular note, we focus
on the top 25% most active mutual funds, defined as those funds whose maximum position-level
information ratio defined above is in the top 25% of all corresponding information ratios at that
point in time. All of our results are robust to reasonable variation in this cutoff; we report findings
based on different cutoffs in the Internet Appendix.
Table I Panel A provides summary statistics every five years for our sample of mutual fund
portfolios over the 35-year period under consideration. The table highlights the impressive growth
of the industry, the result of not only growth in the market itself but also increased demand for
equity mutual fund investment. While the number of funds in our active mutual fund sample
increases tenfold from 1983 to the end of 2018, assets under management increase from $54 billion
to $3.8 trillion in the same time span. Columns four and five indicate that active mutual funds as a
the performance of all best ideas and thus does not require sorting are robust. For example, Table II Panel A
reports that the six-factor alpha of the best ideas portfolio starting in 1983 is 37 basis points per month (t-stat of
3.45). The six-factor alpha of a best ideas portfolio starting in 1980 is 33 basis points per month (t-stat of 3.36).
2This minimum requirement on the amount of net assets and number of holdings is standard in the literature
and imposed to filter out the most obvious errors present in the holdings data as well as incubated funds.
3We focus on active equity funds as follows. We screen and exclude funds whose names include INDEX, Index,
IDX, Idx, S&P, s&p, Fixed, FIXED, TAX, tax, Tax, CONVERTIBLE, Convertible, annuity, ANNUITY, ANN,
ann, VAR, Var, CONV, or Conv. Furthermore, we only include funds that have the investment objective code of
2, 3, 4, 7, or 8 and that have two-thirds of their AUM in common shares.
4Our work also documents that best-ideas trading strategies based only on holdings information as of the date
the positions are made public also generate economically and statistically significant abnormal returns. See Figure
4 for direct evidence on this question.
9
whole have grown to be dominant investors in U.S. equity markets with the typical fund managing
more than 2 billion and holding roughly 160 stocks. Interestingly, the average number of stocks
in these mutual fund portfolios has more than doubled in our sample period. In summary, our
analysis covers a substantial segment of the professional money management industry that in turn
scans a substantial part of the U.S stock market for investment ideas.
Table I Panel A documents that our sample of active managers tends to hold very close to
the typical NYSE stock in terms of the well-know Fama and French (2015) characteristics. These
preferences are rather stable over time. Table I Panel B reports summary statistics for the stocks
we identify as the top ex ante best idea while Table I Panel C reports the same statistics for the
top five best ideas. Best ideas tend to be much larger stocks with relatively low book-to-market
ratios, relatively high profitability, and relatively high asset growth. As a consequence, though
these best ideas are a small fraction of the market in number, in total, they make up a non-trivial
portion of US stock market value. The panel highlights that the typical fund’s stake in their best
idea is roughly 1.3% of the market of the firm in question and 10.6% of the fund’s AUM.
V Empirical Results
A The Distribution of Best Ideas
In theory, the number of best ideas that exist in the industry at any point in time could be
as many as the number of managers or as few as one (if each manager had the same best idea).
Of course, this latter case is quite unlikely since mutual fund holdings make up a substantial
proportion of the market. Therefore, massive overweighting of a stock by mutual funds would
be difficult to reconcile with financial market equilibrium. In Figure 1, we show the way the
distribution of best ideas across managers based on our market measure of information ratio,
IRmarket
f t , has changed over time. The solid line with circles in Figure 1 indicates that best ideas
generally do not overlap across managers. Over the entire sample period, approximately three10
fourths (72%) of best ideas are a best idea of only one manager at the relevant time. We note
that this statistic has declined over our sample from 90% in 1983 to 65% in 2018. The solid line
with squares shows that best ideas are considered as such by two managers around 14% of the
time. A stock is the best idea of six or more funds only 5% of the time. Figure 1 shows that these
statistics do not vary that much over over the sample.
Clearly, managers’ best ideas are not entirely independent. However, the best idea portfolios
we identify do not consist of just a few names that are hot on Wall Street. Rather, this portfolio
represents the opinions of hundreds of managers each of whom independently found at least one
stock about which they appeared to have real conviction. Figure 1 shows that the percentage of
best ideas that are the best idea of only one manager has decreased over the years but is always
greater than 50%.
Figure 2 graphs the way key aspects of our best ideas measure–tilt, implied information ratio,
and implied alpha–vary over time. The top panel depicts the evolution of the median market and
portfolio tilts, the middle panel reports the corresponding value of the associated information ratio
measure (the measure with which we identify the best ideas), and the bottom panel shows the
corresponding implied alpha. The typical market tilt associated with best ideas averages around
7.4% while the typical portfolio tilt averages around 4.9%. The corresponding information ratio
averages 1.5% for the market tilt measure and 1.1% for the portfolio tilt measure. As the graphs
show, variation in these measures clearly reflects trends in idiosyncratic volatility over time.5 This
variation is a desirable feature of our alpha measures: A 2% tilt away from the benchmark in 2000
is a stronger sign of conviction than a 2% tilt in 1997, since idiosyncratic risk has risen in between.
The resulting alphas average 0.35% and 0.26%.
5Campbell, Lettau, Makiel, and Xu (2001) document a positive trend in idiosyncratic volatility during the 1962
to 1997 period. See Brandt, Brav, Graham, and Kumar (2010) for post-1997 evidence on this time-series variation.
11
B The Features and Performance of Best Ideas
We measure the performance of best ideas using two approaches. Our primary approach is to
measure the out-of-sample performance of a portfolio of all active managers’ best ideas.6 Each
best idea in the portfolio is equal-weighted (if more than one manager considers a stock a best
idea, we overweight accordingly). Results are qualitatively similar if we equal-weight unique names
in the portfolio, if we weight by market capitalization, or if we weight by the amount of dollar
invested in the best idea. The portfolio is rebalanced on the first day of every quarter to reflect
new information on the stock holdings of fund managers, and its performance is tracked until the
end of the quarter.
Each best ideas portfolio differs according to which of the two tilt measures we use to identify
best ideas. We examine not only the excess return on the portfolio but also a matched version
following Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (2000). Our final approach examines “bestminus-rest” portfolios, where for every manager, we are long their best idea and short the remaining
stocks in the manager’s portfolio (excluding the top ten ideas and with the weights for the “rest”
of the portfolio being proportional to the manager’s weights). Thus, for each manager, we have a
style-neutral best-idea bet, which we as before aggregate over managers by equal-weighting.7 We
then track the monthly performance of these six portfolios (three for each tilt measure) over the
following three months and rebalance thereafter.
We benchmark these six portfolios in two different ways. We choose these models to reflect
industry standards in fund evaluation and to make our results comparable to the findings of
previous work in the literature. We first examine the alpha with respect to the Fama French fivefactor model. We also report performance results measured by a six-factor specification, which
adds Carhart’s (1997) momentum factor to the model. All factor return data are gathered from
6We require stocks to have price greater or equal than $5 at portfolio formation.
7Note that our best-minus-rest approach has at least one attractive benefit: By comparing the manager’s best
idea to other stocks in the manager’s portfolio, the best-minus-rest measure tends to cancel out most style and
sector effects that might otherwise bias our performance inference.
12
Kenneth French’s website.8
The first two rows of Table II Panel A benchmark the best ideas of active fund managers
against the five- and six-factor models. Our estimates of five-factor alpha are 47 basis points
(t-statistic of 4.09) and 43 basis points (t-statistic of 3.89) for the market and portfolio alpha
measures respectively. Our six-factor estimates are 37 basis points (t-statistic of 3.34) and 35
basis points (t-statistic of 3.29) for the market and portfolio alpha measures respectively.
One concern is that the factor model may not perfectly price characteristic-sorted portfolios. The small-growth portfolio and the large-growth portfolio have three-factor alphas of -34
bps/month (t-stat -3.16) and 21 bps/month (t-stat of 3.20) in Fama and French (1993). As
Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, Wermers (1997) (DGTW) point out, this fact can distort performance
evaluation. For example, the passive strategy of buying the S&P 500 growth and selling the Russell
2000 growth results in a 44 bps/month Carhart alpha (Cremers, Petajisto, and Zitzewitz; 2012).
As a consequence, we also adjust the returns on the best-ideas strategy using characteristic-sorted
benchmark portfolios as in DGTW. Specifically we assign each best idea to a passive portfolio
according to its size, book-to-market, and momentum rank and subtract the “passive” portfolio’s
return, rDGTW,t, from the best idea’s return. The DGTW excess return measure is thus simply
rp,t−rDGTW,t. The third and fourth rows of Table II Panel A show the mean of the benchmarked
return along with results from five- and six-factor regressions. The characteristic-adjusted results remain economically and statistically significant. In particular, the six-factor alphas on the
DGTW-adjusted returns are 26 basis points (t-stat of 2.91) and 29 basis points (t-stat of 3.29)
respectively.
The analysis in the last two rows of Table II Panel A indicates that missing controls are
probably not responsible for the alphas we measure by examining the performance of a bestminus-rest strategy. Unless the best ideas of managers systematically have a different risk or
characteristic profile than the rest of the stocks in their portfolios, this strategy controls for any
unknown style effects that the manager may possibly be following. For both measures, alphas
8http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html
13
are comparable to our two other approaches shown in Table II. More importantly, this analysis
confirms that the abnormal performance of the typical manager’s overall portfolio is not spread
evenly across their positions. As an additional useful benchmark, Table II Panel B measures
the performance of a portfolio that holds all of the portfolios of the managers in our sample, in
proportion to their investment weights. We find that the six-factor alpha of a portfolio of “All
Ideas” is only 6 basis points and statistically insignificant.
Our analysis has focused on the top 25% best ideas across the universe of active managers in
order to make sure we were not examining passive funds, sometimes labeled “closet indexers.”In
the Internet Appendix, Panels A through F of Table A.1 document that our findings concerning
the performance of best ideas generally hold as we vary this threshold from 50% to the top 12.5%
of active tilts.
Table III repeats the best-minus-rest analysis of Table II Panel A but replacing the best idea
in the long side of the bet with the manager’s top three ideas (Panel A) or top 5 ideas (Panel
B). These top three/five positions are weighted within funds by the size of the manager’s position
in the stock and then equally-weighted across managers. We find that after generalizing what
managers feel to be their top picks, the results continue to show economically and statistically
significant performance. Consistent with the idea that managers’ tilts reflect their views concerning
stocks’ prospects, the alpha of the trading strategy is smaller as we include the lower-ranked stocks.
Consistent with diversification benefits, the standard error of the estimate is usually lower as more
stocks are included on the long side.
We examine more precisely how views concerning alpha that are implicit in managers’ portfolio
weights line up with subsequent performance. We repeat the analysis replacing every manager’s
best idea with their second-best idea. We then move on to the third-best idea, and so on, down
to the tenth-ranked idea. Figure 3 plots how the six-factor alphas evolve when one moves down
the list of best ideas for the market tile measure of alpha along with two standard error bounds.
The figure is striking: the point estimates decline as we move down managers’ rankings. We are
able to reject the hypothesis that these ideas are greater than zero for each of the top-five ideas,
14
identified using our market alpha measure. The estimates for ideas six through ten are less than
that of any of the top-five ideas, and often substantially so.
Figure 4 plots the returns on the best ideas portfolio in event time where the post-formation
long-horizon returns are measured as in Cohen, Polk, and Vuolteenaho (2009) and adjusted for risk
using the six-factor model.9 Panel A reports the result for the full sample while Panel B reports
the results for the second half of the long-horizon sample. The figure shows that the superior
performance of best ideas is not transitory in nature.10 The buy-and-hold abnormal returns of the
stocks in our best ideas portfolio does not revert in the months or even years after first appearing
in the portfolio. If one were to buy the best-ideas portfolios of Table II and hold those bets for the
next decade, the result long-horizon abnormal performance would have been slightly over 20%.
This finding indicates that these stocks are dramatically underpriced relative to the six-factor
model. We find similar patterns for the long-horizon performance of best ideas in the second half
of the sample indicating that our finding is robust in that way.
C Where are best ideas most effective?
In this subsection, we examine the extent to which the performance of best ideas varies as a
function of stock or fund characteristics. In particular, each month we sort the best ideas portfolio
into tritiles based on a particular characteristic and report the differences in six-factor alphas in
Table IV.11 Our first variable is stock illiquidity which we measure using the bid-ask spread. We
expect stronger outperformance of best ideas among illiquid stocks. Consistent with this view, we
find that relatively illiquid best ideas outperform relatively liquid best ideas by 59 basis points
per month with a t-statistic of 2.56.
9We measure abnormal return at post-formation month T using a portfolio strategy that invests in T portfolios:
the portfolio based on month t-1 best ideas, the portfolio based on t-2 best ideas, ... , and the portfolio based on
month t–T best ideas. Furthermore, the weight on each of these different portfolios declines exponentially–ρ to the
power of months from the sort minus one. The parameter ρ is the Campbell-Shiller parameter that we set to have
an annual value of 0.95. See Cho and Polk (2020) for more sophisticated ways to measure price-level distortions.
10To ensure that the number of data points for each post-formation month is the same, we form our last portfolio
in 2008.
11Differences in five-factor alphas are very similar and available on request.
15
The next two variables with which we sort stocks within the best ideas portfolio are growth
and momentum. In terms of the first, growth stocks are arguably often overpriced, so, if a best
idea is a growth stock, then the manager must really believe in it. Consistent with this view, we
find that best ideas with relatively higher market-to-book ratios outperform by 86 basis points
per month with a t-statistic of 3.94. For momentum, the typical institutional investor tilts away
from that characteristic, perhaps in part because of tracking error concerns.12 We find that best
ideas with relatively higher stock momentum outperform by 76 basis points (t-statistic of 3.21).
Finally, we sort stocks into tritiles based on the fund manager’s 36-month four-factor (Carhart,
2001) alpha. The best ideas of funds with relatively higher alpha outperform funds with relatively
lower alpha by 38 basis points a month with an associated t-statistic of 2.23.
We measure the joint economic and statistical significance of these variables by combining
them into a single composite sort variable. To do so, we convert each variable into percentile
ranks, average these ranks for each stock into a composite variable (COMP), and then sort stocks
based on the resulting average. We find that stocks with a high COMP outperform stocks with a
low COMP by an impressive 91 basis points a month with a corresponding t-statistic of 3.92. To
measure the importance of the average incremental effect of each of the four variables, we repeat
the analysis but first orthogonalizing each characteristic to each other. The resulting orthogonal
composite variable (COMP − O) delivers a still impressive spread of 66 basis points a month
(t-statistic of 2.43) even though it purposefully discards the common component of these four
variables.
D Robustness
Our findings are robust to reasonable variation in our methodology. In terms of subsample
analysis, Appendix Table A.III documents that our findings do vary with the business cycle.
Consistent with work by Kacperczyk, van Nieuwerburgh, and Veldkamp (2015) who argue that
12Gompers and Metrick (2001) document a strong negative cross-sectional relation between momentum and
institutional ownership. Lou, Polk, and Skouras (2019) confirm this finding in more recent data.
16
mutual fund managers display stock picking skill during booms but market timing skill during
recessions, best ideas are statistically significant during NBER expansions but not during NBER
recessions. Appendix Table A.III confirms that variation in PE ratios also forecasts the conditional
performance of best ideas.
In results not shown, we have added a demeaned trend to the portfolio attribution regressions
within each of these subsamples, finding some evidence of the deterioration of the performance of
best ideas over time within the expansion / market booms subsample. This deterioration is not
necessarily surprising given the fact that the best mutual fund managers may have left to join the
hedge fund industry. In addition, since the first draft of this paper, several investment banks have
marketed investment products explicitly based on our best ideas approach.
We use forward-looking forecasts of CAPM idiosyncratic volatility when measuring the ex ante
information ratio for stocks. The predictive regressions that generate those forecasts are described
in Table A.V. The forecasted volatility should logically correspond to the idiosyncratic volatility
the manager expects to experience over their expected holding period and should also correspond
to the horizon of our trading strategies. As our holding period is three months, we forecast next
quarter’s idiosyncratic volatility. In particular, we estimate
σt = a + b ∗ SIZEt−1 + c ∗ BMt−1 + c ∗ σt−1 + d ∗ σt−5
where t is measured in quarters. The estimated coefficients in conjunction with the time-t − 1
values generate our raw volatility forecast. We shrink this estimate to the cross-sectional average
of σt−1 using equal weights. In unreported results, our findings are robust to adding additional
lags of the independent variables to the specification. Nevertheless, Appendix Table A.V shows
that our results continue to hold if we simply use the most recent value of idiosyncratic volatility,
σt−1, as our estimate of future idiosyncratic volatility.
Appendix Table A.VI documents that our findings are robust to using a twelve-month holding
period rather than a three-month holding period. Appendix Table A.VI reports the way our key
17
findings change if we use other performance attribution models. One challenge here is that our
methodology for identifying best ideas, which relies on the ratio of expected alpha to idiosyncratic
volatility, tends to select high-idiosyncratic-volatility stocks. All else equal, such stocks are likely to
be poor performers, as Ang, Hodrick, Xing, and Zhang (2006) document that stocks with relatively
high idiosyncratic volatility have not only negative CAPM alpha but also underperform controlling
for size, book-to-market, and momentum. However, Fama and French (2015) report that their
five-factor model, unlike the three-factor version, prices the idiosyncratic volatility anomaly. Thus,
our finding that best ideas tend to have higher Fama-French five-factor alphas compared to their
FF three-factor alphas is unsurprising. Indeed, Jordan and Riley (2015) argue that failure to
account for these factors can lead to substantial mismeasurement of mutual fund skill.
E Hedge Funds
We confirm the usefulness of our approach through an analysis based on hedge fund portfolios.
These tests are independent in the sense that we obtained this data and performed the analysis
long after the first draft of this paper was written, thus they constitute an out-of-sample test on our
original findings. To identify hedge funds and their holdings, we use the identification approach
of Agrawal, Jiang, Tang, and Yang (2012) who manually classify all 13-filing institutions based on
a wide range of sources including institutional websites, SEC filings, industry publications, and
broader news sources. Since 13F data is for the institution rather than the fund, we study only
relatively “pure-play” hedge funds and thus exclude banks and mutual fund companies. Our final
sample consists of 1,662 unique hedge funds.
Since hedge funds arguably care less about benchmarks and tracking error than mutual funds,
we modify our methodology to also consider a third way of identifying best ideas that ignores
these aspects,
18
α
conviction
f t = λf t
bestconviction alpha
f t = arg max
i
α
conviction
if t
Table V documents that the equity best ideas of hedge funds strongly outperform for all of the
methods we study. The first three rows of Table V Panel A benchmark the best ideas of active
fund managers against the five- and six-factor models. Our estimates of five-factor alpha are 31
basis points (t-statistic of 3.21), 31 basis points (t-statistic of 3.11), and 36 basis points for the
market, portfolio, and conviction measures respectively. These estimates barely change when we
add momentum to the factor model: Our six-factor estimates are 28 basis points (t-statistic of
2.83), 28 basis points (t-statistic of 2.78), and 32 basis points (t-statistic of 3.17) for the market,
portfolio, and conviction measures respectively.
The fourth through sixth rows of Table V Panel A show our conclusions continue to hold when
using either the DGTW approach or best-minus-rest spread bets. The six-factor alphas on the
DGTW-adjusted returns are 20 basis points (t-stat of 2.46), 25 basis points (t-stat of 2.92), and 20
basis points (t-stat of 2.54) respectively. We find higher estimates than these for the best-minusrest portfolios. Six-factor alphas range from 31 basis points (t-stat of 3.11) to 25 basis points
(t-stat of 2.41).
As we did for the mutual fund analysis, we report the performance of a portfolio that holds the
entire portfolios of the managers in our sample, in proportion to AUM invested, as a benchmark.
We find that the six-factor alpha of a portfolio of “All Ideas” is only 1 basis point and statistically
insignificant.
As with our mutual fund analysis, this finding is robust as strategies which hold the top three
or top five best ideas strongly outperform as well. Appendix Table A.XI documents that the
six-factor alphas range from 11 basis points to 25 basis points across our six measures and two
attribution models. The corresponding t-statistics are consistently above 2 for the top-three best
19
ideas class of strategies. For the top-five best ideas strategies, t-stats are always above 1.8 and in
some cases are as high as 3.38.
Finally, in Table V Panel C, we document that the performance of best ideas varies with fund
size. Best ideas strongly outperform in small hedge funds, defined as those funds with AUM in
equities of 100 million or less. Specifically, the six-factor alpha based on our market-tilt-based
information ratio measure is 58 basis points per month with a t-statistic of 2.40. Estimates using
our other measures are broadly consistent. The point estimates of giant hedge funds, defined as
funds with AUM in equities of 10 billion or more, are negative and large in absolute value, though
generally not statistically significant at normal levels of significance. The difference between small
and big funds best ideas six-factor alpha for our primary measure is more than 1.26% per month
with an associated t-statistic of 2.58.
Appendix Table A.XII documents that the same characteristics that spread performance in best
ideas in mutual funds also spread performance in hedge funds. Though the statistical significance
of individual point estimates are generally weaker than in the mutual fund analysis, the six-factor
alpha of a strategy based on our orthogonal composite signal, COMP − O delivers a spread of 91
basis points a month (t-statistic of 3.20).
Our analysis has focused on the top 25% best ideas across the universe of active hedge fund
managers. The Internet Appendix shows (Panels A through F of Table A.IX) that our findings
concerning the performance of hedge fund best ideas generally hold as we vary this threshold from
50% to the top 12.5% of active tilts. Similarly, Internet Appendix Table A.X documents that the
performance of the All Ideas portfolio is poor regardless of the active tilt threshold we implement.
VI Discussion and Implications
Modern portfolio theory (MPT) makes clear normative statements about optimal investing by
managers on behalf of their clients. The core principle is straightforward: since linear combinations
of mean-variance efficient portfolios are themselves MVE, managers should hold MVE portfolios on
20
behalf of their clients. But it was William Sharpe himself (1981) who noted that in the presence
of constraints, delegating security selection to managers unaware of the client’s other portfolio
holdings is likely to lead to suboptimal outcomes. We extend these sorts of arguments to show
that the problem can be quite severe when managers have investment opportunities of widely
varying quality; i.e. if their "best ideas" really are significantly better than the remainder of the
opportunities they perceive, as our empirical results suggest they are. Below we employ simple
examples to illustrate the magnitude of this effect. In section VI.A we use a one-manager, twoidea example so concise one can do the calculations in one’s head. In Section VI.B we make the
situation more realistic by allowing a large number of managers, each of whom has one set of good
ideas they can mix with the market in proportions of their choosing. Section VI.C briefly discusses
properties of a more complete model while Section VI.D summarizes the resulting implications
and Section VI.E touches upon additional considerations.
A A simple case with the market and two alpha opportunities
Suppose an endowment fund with mean-variance preferences has three possible investments:
M (the global market portfolio), and X and Y (the two ideas for trades that a skilled manager
possesses).
Let the riskless rate be zero and the expected returns on the assets be: E[RM] = 7%, E[RX] =
2%, and E[RY ] = 1%. Further suppose all three assets are uncorrelated and each has the same
volatility. Assume the manager charges no fees. To fix ideas, imagine that the bets are purchases
of catastrophe bonds: X, a bond that pays 3% in the 99% likely case that Florida hurricane losses
fall below some cutoff and -100% otherwise, and Y , a similar bond that pays 2% on the 99%
chance of below-threshold Japanese windstorm losses and -100% otherwise.
Unconstrained optimization delivers the result 70% in M, 20% in X, and 10% in Y , the portfolio
that maximizes Sharpe ratio. The problem is separable: if we optimize the active manager’s
portfolio, we’ll find that 2/3 X and 1/3 Y is optimal. At Stage 2, we can then optimize between
21
the market and the manager to get 70% and 30%, bringing us back to 70%, 20%, and 10% in M,
X, and Y respectively. Everything is as expected, and the manager has not hurt their investor by
maximizing Sharpe ratio in their two-asset sub-portfolio.
But, suppose the endowment decides in advance that it will not allocate more than 10% to the
manager. Now in many cases, the best we can do in terms of Sharpe ratio in the absence of shortselling is if the manager puts 100% in the better bet X and zero in Y . In fact, if the managers can
sell short, Sharpe ratio may often be further increased if they short Y to fund greater investment
in X. Once we put in place the extremely realistic constraint that an endowment fund will cap the
allocation to any given manager, then the manager is hurting the endowment’s expected utility if
they select the Sharpe-ratio-maximizing (SRM) portfolio of their ideas rather than concentrating
on their very best idea(s).
Figure 5 shows the Sharpe ratios obtained at different allocations to the ideas X and Y . Each
line on the graph shows the results for a different constraint on the total fraction of assets that are
managed (i.e. invested in either X or Y ). We indicate on each line with a star the amount in the
best idea consistent with a myopic allocation by the active manager that only maximized their
own-portfolio Sharpe ratio. If 30% of the investor’s portfolio is allocated to the active manager,
the global optimum is also the unconstrained choice (i.e., the highest Sharpe ratio occurs at
20%, which is 2/3 of 30%). When we constrain the managed assets to either 10% or 20% of the
portfolio, the maximum Sharpe ratio is reduced of course. Less obviously, when managed assets
are constrained, the fraction of managed assets that should be held in the best idea X grows from
2/3 in the unconstrained case to 4/5 if managed holdings are capped at 20% of the portfolio (since
the maximum Sharpe ratio is obtained at a 16% investment in the best idea). Finally, in the case
where the fixed allocation to the active manager is only 10%, the optimal investment in the best
idea becomes 11/10, implying a short position of -1/10 in the second-best idea.
In summary, Figure 5 demonstrates that constraining the allocation to a manager should
simultaneously also incentivize the client to push the fund manager to allocate more to best ideas.
Otherwise, if managers act myopically by maximizing only their sub-portfolio’s Sharpe ratio, the
22
overall Sharpe ratio may be reduced. In the example above, the magnitude of the reduction in
Sharpe ratio is modest. In order for the true impact of the effect to be appreciated, one needs to
consider the more realistic situation where the investor allocates to multiple managers, which we
do next.
B A more realistic setting
Suppose that the assumptions underlying the CAPM hold, except that each manager has
identified a single unit-beta investment opportunity X that has positive CAPM alpha. We assume
that there are N managers, each of whom has one best idea so that each manager’s portfolio
consists of a combination of the best idea and the market portfolio. Note that the best idea could
be thought of as an immutable basket of the manager’s good ideas. For simplicity, we assume that
each manager’s idea has the same expected return, volatility, and beta and that the unsystematic
components of managers’ best ideas are uncorrelated. In Figure 6, we display the Sharpe ratios
for such portfolios based on the following set of assumptions. Suppose that each investment X has
4% annual alpha and that the market premium is 6%; let the market’s annual volatility be 15%
and X’s be 40% (with the assumption of unit beta, every X must have a correlation of .375 with
M, where M again represents the market portfolio). We continue to assume that the risk-free rate
is zero.
The optimal risky portfolio for an investor to hold will be a mix of the Xs and M, with each
X having equal weight. The weights that are optimal are the weights that maximize the resulting
portfolio’s Sharpe ratio. If each individual manager maximizes their Sharpe ratio, the result will
be that each manager will have 89% in the market and 11% in their best idea. And if the investor
has access to only a single manager, the manager’s choice will be the optimal choice for the investor
as well. But as Figure 6 shows, the conclusion changes dramatically as the number of managers
grows. For example, if the investor is allocating among five equally-skilled managers, the resulting
portfolio will be optimized if each manager allocates approximately 47% to their best idea. If the
23
investor has access to fifty equally-skilled managers, the optimum is found when managers put
468% in their best idea (and -368% in the market).
The top line in Figure 6 shows the Sharpe ratio that would result if managers followed this
optimal policy. The lowest line shows the Sharpe ratio the investor will obtain if each manager
instead mean-variance optimizes their own portfolio. The middle line gives the resulting Sharpe
ratios if managers choose the portfolio that is best for the investor but with the constraint that
they cannot sell the market short.
Differences in Sharpe ratios are substantial. For fifty managers, manager-level optimization
leads to a Sharpe ratio of 0.4 while the optimum optimorum delivers 0.8, and the best-case scenario
with short selling constraints provides 0.6. Moreover, optimal weights in the manager’s best ideas
are dramatically larger than what results from myopically maximizing manager-level Sharpe ratio.
In general, it seems likely that borrowing, lending, shorting, and maximum-investment constraints will create a situation where the investor’s optimum requires the manager to choose a
weight in X far greater than the SRM weight. Such a scenario would appear to be the case in
typical real-world situations. A manager has a small number of good investment ideas. Modern portfolio theory says that any portfolio of stocks that maximizes CAPM information ratio is
equally good for investors. But in truth, if the manager offers a portfolio with small weights in the
good ideas and a very large weight in the market [or a near-market portfolio of zero- (or near-zero-)
alpha stocks], the results for investors will be entirely unsatisfactory. The small allocation that
investors make to any given manager, combined with the small weight such a manager places in
the good ideas, mean that the manager adds very little value.
Suppose managers have optimized their Sharpe ratios and the investor wishes to obtain the
constrained optimum. In a world where shorting the market was costless and common, an investor
could take 100 dollars of capital and, instead of giving two dollars to each manager, could short the
market to the tune of 800 dollars, giving 18 to each manager. Then, if each manager maximized
Sharpe ratio and put 11% into their best idea, the investor would have about two dollars in each
best idea and would approximately match the allocation the investor would have had if they had
24
given two dollars to each manager and each manager had put 100% of this capital in their best
idea. In reality, it would be shocking to see an endowment fund pursue such an extreme marketshorting strategy. But this example shows that investors can alleviate the costs of constraints on
allocations to managers if they can short and lever at the portfolio level.
So: MPT says all X-M combinations are equally good because investors can go long or short
the market to return to the optimum. A natural choice for managers would be the SRM portfolio
(11/89 in our example). But we see that the more realistic constrained case suggests that managers
can serve their clients better by putting a much greater weight in X than the SRM weight – e.g.
100% instead of 11%. And yet as we see in Figure 2, over weights of best ideas by actual managers
are smaller than 11%. Indeed overweights of that magnitude are rare. Of course, the 11% figure
came from our simple example; perhaps managers view their best ideas as having far less than 4%
alpha. But this seems unlikely, since we find actual outperformance of this order of magnitude
despite our very poor proxy for best ideas (plus which, in the real world, managers are probably
overly optimistic about the expectations for their best ideas, not insufficiently optimistic).
C Multiple managers, each with multiple positive-alpha ideas
Of course, in the real world, investors face a problem that combines the complexities of each
of the two examples above – multiple managers, each with multiple ideas. Modelling this general
case is beyond the scope of this paper. But we observe that if a manager wishes to serve a
client optimally by dividing their allocation among their positive-alpha ideas, they will need to
know what other managers are in the investor’s portfolio and what the quality of those managers’
best ideas is. Moreover, that answer will differ for each of the manager’s existing investors, not
to mention potential investors the manager would like to court. In the next section, we discuss
reasons managers might choose to employ mean-variance optimization of their holdings even when
this is suboptimal for the underlying investors. It’s worth considering that one additional possible
reason is that managers, faced with a problem where they lack sufficient information – and where
25
even if they possessed that information there would still be no way to please everyone – may
simply throw up their hands in frustration and revert to simple rules of thumb.
D Why don’t managers concentrate more in their best ideas?
Other conditions may differ from our simple example, but it appears probable that what we
are observing is a decision by managers to diversify as much or more than the SRM portfolio
despite the argument above that their clients would be best served by them diversifying far less
than SRM. We identify four reasons managers may overdiversify.
1. Regulatory/legal. A number of regulations make it impossible or at least risky for many
investment funds to be highly concentrated. Specific regulations bar overconcentration;
additionally vague standards such as the “Prudent man” rule make it more attractive for
funds to be better diversified from a regulatory perspective. Managers may well feel that
a concentrated portfolio that performs poorly is likely to lead to investor litigation against
the manager. Anecdotally, discussions with institutional fund-pickers make their preference
for individual funds with low idiosyncratic risk clear. Some attribute the effect to a lack of
understanding of portfolio theory by the selectors. Others argue that the selector’s superior
(whether inside or outside the organization) will tend to zero in on the worst performing
funds, regardless of portfolio performance. Whatever the cause, we have little doubt that
most managers feel pressure to be diversified.
2. Price impact, liquidity and asset-gathering. Berk and Green (2004) outline a model
in which managers attempt to maximize profits by maximizing assets under management.
In their model, as in ours, managers mix their positive-alpha ideas with a weighting in the
market portfolio. The motivation in their model for the market weight is that investing in
an individual stock will affect the stock’s price, each purchase pushing it toward fair value.13
13See empirical work by Berk and van Binsbergen (2015), Pastor, Stambaugh, and Taylor (2015), and Zhu
(2018) on empirical findings related to scale and skill in the fund management industry and Pastor, Stambaugh,
26
Thus, there is a maximum number of dollars of alpha that the manager can extract from
a given idea. In the Berk and Green model managers collect fees as a fixed percentage of
assets under management, and investors react to performance, so that in equilibrium each
manager will raise assets until the fees are equal to the alpha that can be extracted from their
good ideas. This choice leaves the investors with zero after-fee alpha. Clearly in the world
of Berk and Green, and in the real world of mutual funds, managers with one great idea
would be foolish to invest their entire fund in that idea, for this would make it impossible for
them to capture a very high fraction of the idea’s alpha in their fees. In other words, while
investors benefit from concentration as noted above, managers under most commonly-used
fee structures are better off with a more diversified portfolio. The distribution of bargaining
power between managers and investors may therefore be a key determinant of diversification
levels in funds.
3. Manager risk aversion. While the investor is diversified beyond the manager’s portfolio,
the manager himself is not. The portfolio’s performance is likely the central determinant
of the manager’s wealth, and as such we should expect them to be risk averse over fund
performance. A heavy bet on one or a small number of positions can, in the presence of
bad luck, cause the manager to lose their business or their job (and perhaps much of their
savings as well, if they are heavily invested in their own fund, as is common practice). If
manager talent were fully observable this would not be the case – for a skilled manager, the
poor performance would be correctly attributed to luck, and no penalty would be exacted.
But when ability is being estimated by investors based on performance, risk-averse managers
will have incentive to overdiversify.
4. Investor irrationality. There is ample reason to believe that many investors – even
sophisticated institutional investors – do not fully appreciate portfolio theory and therefore
and Taylor (2017) for theoretical and empirical findings related to fund turnover in the presence of time-varying
profit opportunities.
27
tend to judge individual investments on their expected Sharpe ratio rather than on what
those investments are expected to contribute to the Sharpe ratio of their portfolio.14 For
example, Morningstar’s well-known star rating system is based on a risk-return trade-off that
is highly correlated with Sharpe ratio. It is very difficult for a highly concentrated fund to get
a top rating even if average returns are very high, as the star methodology heavily penalizes
idiosyncratic risk. Since a large majority of all flows to mutual funds are to four- and fivestar funds, concentrated funds would appear to be at a significant disadvantage in fundraising.15 Other evidence of this bias includes the prominence of fund-level Sharpe ratios
in the marketing materials of funds, as well as maximum drawdown and other idiosyncratic
measures.
Both theory and evidence suggest that investors would benefit from managers holding more
concentrated portfolios.16 As institutional investors such as endowment funds are certainly welldiversified, a move by fund managers to hold more concentrated funds would likely have little effect
on the efficiency of (end) institutional investors’ portfolios. In contrast, offering more concentrated
funds to retail investors might possibly result in less-diversified portfolios for those investors, given
their lower investment scale and sophistication. However, given the well-known MBA textbook
result that most of the gains from diversification are achieved with a small number of individual
stocks, such lack-of-diversification costs seem limited. In particular, Fisher and Lorie (1970) show
that 80% of the gains from diversification are achieved by holding only eight stocks and 95% of
those gains are achieved with just 32 stocks.
With that logic in hand, Curcuru, Heaton, Lucas, and Moore (2010) document that stockholding households with undiversified portfolios are actually a relatively small percentage of the data,
less than 14% in the 2001 Survey of Consumer Finances. 17 Indeed, Benartzi and Thaler (2001)
14This behavior is consistent with the general notion of “narrow framing” proposed by Kahneman and Lovallo
(1993), Rabin and Thaler (2001), and Barberis, Huang, and Thaler (2006).
15Del Guercio and Tkac (2008) show that Morningstar star rating is the strongest variable predicting mutual
fund flows out of those they consider, subsuming alpha in their analysis.
16See work by Van Nieuwerburgh and Veldkamp (2010).
17On a related note, Polkovnichenko (2005) emphasizes the diversification benefits of the coexistence of both
28
show that investors tend to follow the “1/n” strategy and divide contributions across all of the
funds they are offered in their defined contribution plan rather than just hold one fund. Thus,
the move by fund managers to hold more concentrated portfolios would also tend to have little
impact on the ultimate efficiency of most retail portfolios.
More importantly, for those retail investors aiming to prioritize diversification over alpha in
their allocation to mutual funds, a key consequence of choosing a diversified active mutual fund
is that active funds charge “alpha fees.” Thus, rather than simply choosing an expensive diversified active fund, a cheaper solution for a diversification-driven retail investor would be to allocate
a portion of their portfolio to one or more of the proposed concentrated best-ideas versions of
managers’ funds and then allocate the remaining percentage to a low-cost index fund. Of course,
while we argue that the first aspect of that strategy would be a beneficial change to the investment opportunity set, the second aspect of that strategy has been easily available since the 1976
introduction of Vanguard’s first index fund.
Our view is that we fail to see managers focusing on their best ideas for a number of reasons.
Most of these relate to benefits to the manager of holding a diversified portfolio. But if those
were the only causes, we would be hearing an outcry from investors about overdiversification by
managers, while in fact such complaints are rare. Thus, we speculate that investor irrationality
(or at least bounded rationality) in the form of manager-level analytics and heuristics that are not
truly appropriate in a portfolio context, play a major role in causing overdiversification.
E Additional considerations
While we argue that ideas other than the “best ideas” enter the manager’s portfolio primarily
to “round it out” and thereby reduce volatility, this view is of course an oversimplification. After
all, if diversification were their only purpose, we might see managers simply put a fraction of their
portfolio into their best ideas and the remainder into an index ETF or similar. However, such a
individual stocks and mutual funds within stockholding households’ portfolios.
29
strategy might be too flagrant and anger investors who, after all, see themselves as paying fees
on/for the entire portfolio. And it might not even be optimal; a set of best ideas concentrated in,
say, healthcare and tech might be best diversified by a selection of industrials, energy firms, and
the like. Beyond these issues, though, we fully appreciate that managers do their best to add value
with every position in their portfolio. No doubt even the least-high-conviction stock in the fund
was chosen with some degree of care. Our point is merely that the market is very tough to beat,
while diversifying is relatively easy. Stocks selected in the hope of simultaneously adding alpha
and reducing portfolio volatility, and selected with sincere effort but, time constraints on human
endeavor being what they are, perhaps only a modicum thereof, will likely be far more successful
at diversifying than at alpha-adding.
If best ideas perform so much better than others, a natural response by fund management firms
might be to hire a large number of managers to deliver a greater number of high-alpha stocks for
the portfolio. Why don’t we see this? One answer is that we do. There is considerable variation
among money managers in how many staff are employed per holding, or per dollar invested.
Additionally there is variation in the quality of staff applied to the management of each dollar or
asset. Some evidence suggests that applying more resources to the asset-management challenge
does bear fruit. For example, Chaudhuri, Ivkovic, Pollet, and Trzcinka (2020) show that funds
where PhDs play a key role outperform otherwise similar firms. This variation brings us to deep
issues in the industrial organization of the money-management business. Financial professionals
are expensive, talented ones even more so. Firms have to weigh the trade-off between paying for
more talent and accepting a higher probability of poor performance. Because there is so much
luck in which managers perform well in any given year, it is plausible that many firms will choose
the lower-cost, lower-expected-performance strategy.
Additionally, there are psychological factors at play in this human resources challenge: skilled
stock-pickers want to be in control, to have the portfolio manager title and the accompanying
prestige. Consequently, it may be challenging to keep, say, several dozen top managers working
together to generate several dozen best ideas for a single fund, even if the fund is so large it can
30
compensate them all quite well for their efforts – they cannot all be the PM! There have been
a few famous cases of this sort of structure working well, at least for a period of time, e.g. in
the glory years of Julian Robertson’s Tiger Management. According to firm lore, he had a group
of skilled investors funneling their best ideas up to Robertson, who then selected the best of the
best. It may be that holding such talent in subordinate positions requires a manager of legendary
status. And even so it did not last forever, most of the key Tiger staff went on to manage their
own funds.
Finally, we argue that with asset managers paid on assets under management, it is understandable that they would work to maximize the AUM that they can manage well enough to keep
investors in the fund. This point leads to a natural question: Is paying a percentage of AUM the
optimal compensation scheme for asset managers? Of course, we do see other contracts; indeed,
fees based on both a fraction of assets and a fraction of profits (“2 and 20”) is one of the defining
features of the hedge fund industry. And it has been often argued by hedge fund advocates that
this structure provides incentives to hedge funds to focus less on asset-gathering and more on
performance than traditional contracts tied only to AUM.
At the same time, it is common for hedge fund investors to claim that asset-gathering is still
a central goal of hedge fund managers. A full exploration of optimal contract design in asset
management is beyond the scope of this paper. Our view is that the fee structure is not the
primary factor leading managers to overdiversify. Rather, as we discuss in section VI.D, not only
do managers have strong incentives to favor diversified portfolios, investors may inappropriately
view diversified portfolios as in their favor as well. Consequently, there may be little pressure
to create new contracts that would push managers toward concentration. And of course floating
above all this theorizing is the simple fact that in the United States there are severe regulatory
restrictions on the types of contracts mutual funds can offer their customers. Almost all funds
use a flat percentage of AUM because this is an entirely legal way to charge fees, and while there
is some flexibility for mutual funds to be paid more directly for performance, these exceptions
are rather narrow and difficult to implement, especially given that such approaches are viewed as
31
non-standard and therefore suspicious by many investors.
VII Conclusion
How efficient are stock prices? This question is perhaps the central issue in the study of
investing. Many have interpreted the fact that skilled professionals fail to beat the market by a
significant amount as very strong evidence for the efficiency of the stock market.
This paper asks a related simple question. What if each mutual fund manager had only to pick
a few stocks, their best ideas? Could they outperform under those circumstances? We document
strong evidence that they could, as the best ideas of active managers generate up to an order of
magnitude more alpha than their portfolio as a whole, depending on the performance benchmark
and the type of stocks and funds in question.
We argue that these results present powerful evidence that the typical mutual fund manager
can indeed pick stocks. The poor overall performance of mutual fund managers in the past is not
due to a lack of stock-picking ability, but rather to institutional factors that encourage them to
overdiversify, i.e. pick stocks beyond their best alpha-generating ideas. We point out that these
factors may include not only the desire to have a very large fund and therefore collect more fees
[as detailed in Berk and Green (2004)] but also the desire by both managers and investors to
minimize a fund’s idiosyncratic volatility: Though of course managers are risk averse, it seems
investors may judge funds irrationally by measures such as Sharpe ratio or Morningstar rating.
Both of these measures penalize idiosyncratic volatility, a penalty whose benefits in a portfolio
context are extremely questionable.
32
References
Alexander, Gordon, Gjergji Cici, and Scott Gibson, 2007, Does Motivation Matter When Assessing Trade Performance? An Analysis of Mutual Funds, Review of Financial Studies 12
125–150.
Ang, Andrew, Robert Hodrick, Yuhang Xing and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, The Cross-Section of
Volatility and Expected Returns, Journal of Finance 51 259–299.
Barberis, Nicholas, Ming Huang, and Richard H. Thaler, 2006, Individual Preferences, Monetary
Gambles, and Stock Market Participation: A Case for Narrow Framing, American Economic
Review 96 1069–1090.
Benartzi, Shlomo and Richard H. Thaler, 2001, Naive Diversification Strategies in Defined Contribution Saving Plans, American Economic Review 91 79–98.
Berk, Jonathan B. and Richard Green, 2004, Mutual fund flows and performance in rational
markets, Journal of Political Economy 112 1269–1295.
Berk, Jonathan and Jules van Binsbergen, 2015, Measuring Skill in the Mutual Fund Industry,
Journal of Financial Economics 118 1–20.
van Binsbergen, Jules, Michael W. Brandt, and Ralph S. Koijen, Optimal Decentralized Investment Management, Journal of Finance 63 1849–1895.
Brandt, Michael W., Alon Brav, John R. Graham, and Alok Kumar, 2010, The Idiosyncratic
Volatility Puzzle: Time Trend or Speculative Episode?, Review of Financial Studies 23 863–
899.
Campbell, John Y., Martin Lettau, Burton Makiel, and Yexiao Xu, 2001, Have Individual Stocks
Become More Volatile? An Empirical Exploration of Idiosyncratic Risk, Journal of Finance
56 1–43.
Carhart, Mark, 1997, On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance, Journal of Finance 52 57–82.
Chaudhuri, Ranadeb, Zoran Ivkovic, Joshua Pollet, Charles Trzcinka, 2020, A Tangled Tale of
Training and Talent: PhDs in Institutional Asset Management, Management Science 66
5623–5647.
Chen, Hsiu-Lang, Narasimhan Jegadeesh, and Russ Wermers, 2000, The Value of Active Mutual
Fund Management, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 35 343–368.
Chen, Joseph, Harrison Hong, Ming Huang, and Jeffrey D. Kubik, 2004, Does Fund Size Erode
Mutual Fund Performance? The Role of Liquidity and Organization, American Economic
Review 94 1276–1302.
Chevalier, Judith and Glenn Ellison, 1997, Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to
Incentives, Journal of Political Economy 105 1167–1200.
33
Cho, Thummim and Christopher Polk, 2021, Putting the Price in Asset Pricing, London School
of Economics working paper.
Cohen Randolph B., Paul A. Gompers, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2002, Who underreacts to cashflow news? Evidence from trading between individuals and institutions, Journal of Financial
Economics 66 409–462.
Cohen Randolph B., Christopher Polk, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2009, The Price is (Almost)
Right, Journal of Finance 64 2739–2782.
Cremers, Martijn and Antti Petajisto, 2009, How Active is Your Fund Manager? A New Measure
That Predicts Fund Performance, Review of Financial Studies 22 3329–3365.
Cremers, Martijn, Antti Petajisto, and Eric Zitzewitz, 2012, Should Benchmark Indices Have
Alpha? Revisiting Performance Evaluation, Critical Finance Review 2 1–48.
Curcuru, Stephanie, John Heaton, Deborah Lucas, and Damien Moore, 2010, Heterogeneity and
portfolio choice: Theory and evidence, The Handbook of Financial Econometrics, Vol 1,
North Holland.
Daniel, Kent, Mark Grinblatt, Sheridan Titman, and Russ Wermers, 1997, Measuring Mutual
Fund Performance With Characteristic-Based Benchmarks, Journal of Finance 52 1035–
1058.
Del Guercio, Diane and Paula A. Tkac (2008), The determinants of the flow of funds of managed portfolios: Mutual funds versus pension funds, Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis 43 907–936.
Edelen, R., 2002, Investor flows and the assessed performance of open-end fund managers, Journal
of Financial Economics 53 439–466.
Elton, Edwin J., and Martin J. Gruber, 2004, Optimum centralized portfolio construction with
decentralized portfolio management, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 39 481–
494.
Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1992. The cross-section of expected stock returns.
Journal of Finance 47 427–465.
Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1993, Common risk factors in the returns on stocks
and bonds, Journal of Financial Economics 33 3–56.
Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 2015, A five-factor asset pricing model, Journal of
Financial Economics 116 1–22.
Fisher, Lawrence and James H. Lorie, 1970, Some Studies of Variability of Returns on Investments
in Common Stocks, Journal of Business 43 99–134.
Gompers, Paul and Andrew Metrick, 2001, Institutional Investors and Asset Prices, Quarterly
Journal of Economics 116 229–259.
34
Grossman, Sanford J. and Joseph E. Stiglitz, 1980, On the Impossibility of Informationally
Efficient Markets, American Economic Review 70 393–408.
Jensen, Michael C., 1968, The Performance of Mutual Funds in the Period 1945-1964, Journal
of Finance 23 389–416.
Jiang, Hao, Marno Verbeek, and Yu Wang, 2014, Information Content When Mutual Funds
Deviate from Benchmarks, Management Science 60 1861–2109.
Jordan, Bradford, and Timothy Riley, 2015, Volatility and mutual fund skill, Journal of Financial
Economics 118 289–298.
Kacperczyk, Marcin, Clemens Sialm, and Lu Zheng, 2005, On the Industry Concentration of
Actively Managed Equity Mutual Funds, Journal of Finance 60 1983–2021.
Kahneman, Daniel and Lovallo, Dan, 1993, Timid Choices and Bold Forecasts: A Cognitive
Perspective on Risk Taking, Management Science 39 17–31.
Lou, Dong, Christopher Polk, and Spyros Skouras, 2019, A Tug of War: Overnight vs. Intraday
Expected Returns, Journal of Financial Economics 134 192–213.
MacKinlay, A. Craig and Lubos Pastor, 2000, Asset Pricing Models: Implications for Expected
Returns and Portfolio Selection, Review of Financial Studies 13 883–916.
MacKinlay, A. Craig, 1995, Multifactor models do not explain deviations from the CAPM, Journal of Financial Economics 38 3–28.
Markowitz, Harry, 1952, Portfolio Selection, Journal of Finance 7 77–91.
Massa, Massimo, Jonathan Reuter, and Eric Zitzewitz, 2010, When should firms share credit
with employees? Evidence from anonymously managed mutual funds, Journal of Financial
Economics 95 400–424.
van Nieuwerburgh, Stijn and Laura Veldkamp, 2010, Information Acquisition and Under-Diversification,
Review of Economic Studies 77 779–805.
Pastor, Lubos and Robert Stambaugh, 2003, Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns, Journal
of Political Economy 111 642–685.
Pastor, Lubos, Robert Stambaugh, and Lucian Taylor, 2015, Scale and Skill in Active Management, Journal of Financial Economics 116 23–45.
Pastor, Lubos, Robert Stambaugh, and Lucian Taylor, 2017, Do Funds Make More When They
Trade More?, Journal of Finance 72 1483–1528.
Polkovnichenko, Valery, 2005, Household portfolio diversification: A case for rank dependent
preferences, Review of Financial Studies 18, 1467–1502.
35
Pomorski, Lukasz, 2009, Acting on the Most Valuable Information: ‘Best Idea’ Trades of Mutual
Fund Managers, University of Toronto working paper.
Rabin, Matthew and Thaler, Richard H., 2001, Anomalies: Risk Aversion, Journal of Economic
Perspectives 15 219–232.
Rubinstein, Mark, 2001, Rational Markets? Yes or No: The Affirmative Case. Financial Analysts
Journal 57 15–29.
Sadka, Ronnie, 2006, Momentum and Post-earnings-announcement drift anomalies: The Role of
Liquidity Risk, Journal of Financial Economics 80 309–349.
Sharpe, William F., 1966, Mutual Fund Performance, Journal of Business 39 119–138.
Sharpe, William F., 1981, Decentralized Investment Management, Journal of Finance 36 217–
234.
Shumway, Tyler, Maciej Szefler, and Kathy Yuan, 2009, The Information Content of Revealed
Beliefs in Portfolio Holdings, University of Michigan working paper.
Sirri, Erik R. and Peter Tufano, 1998, Costly search and mutual fund flows, Journal of Finance
53 1589–1622.
Wermers, Russ, 2000, Mutual fund performance: An empirical decomposition into stock picking
talent, style, transaction costs, and expenses. Journal of Finance 55 1655–1695.
Wermers, Russ, Tong Yao, and Jane Zhao, 2012, Forecasting stock returns through an efficient
aggregation of mutual fund holdings, Review of Financial Studies 25 3490–3529.
Zhu, Min, 2018, Informative Fund Size, Managerial Skill, and Investor Rationality, Journal of
Financial Economics 130 114–134.
36
37 
Table I: Summary Statistics 
This table reports year-end summary statistics sampled every five years from 1983 to 2018 for all mutual fund 
portfolios detailed on Thompson that contain at least five stocks. Panel A contains information about all 
positions. Column 1 reports the number of all mutual funds while columns 2 to 8 focus on characteristics of 
only active equity mutual funds, those funds whose maximum position-level information ratio is in the top 
25% of all corresponding information ratios at the time. Columns 5-8 report the median decile portfolio for 
the Fama and French (2014) characteristics for all stocks in those portfolios. Panel B details summary 
statistics for the best idea of the 25% most active mutual funds. Owner fraction is the average share of 
ownership held by a manager’s best idea. AUM fraction is the weight that managers allocate to their best 
idea, averaged across funds. Panel C shows the same statistics as in Panel B, but for the top five best ideas 
within these portfolios. 
PANEL A: All Positions 
Number Number of Avg Fund Stocks Size BM OP INV 
Year of Funds Active Funds Size ($b) Per Fund Decile Decile Decile Decile
1983 471 270 0.2 65 3.9 4.7 5.5 5.9 
1985 707 335 0.2 65 3.8 4.7 5.6 6.2 
1990 1170 456 0.2 67 4.4 4.8 5.7 6.2 
1995 2687 908 0.5 92 3.6 5.2 5.0 6.1 
2000 8544 1819 0.8 115 4.3 4.9 4.7 6.0 
2005 9365 1655 0.7 133 3.7 5.1 4.8 5.9 
2010 7454 1593 1.0 148 4.0 5.3 5.0 5.9 
2015 10597 1763 1.8 155 4.4 5.1 4.9 6.0 
2018 9747 1658 2.3 165 4.5 5.0 4.9 6.1 
PANEL B: Top Best Idea Among Top 25% Active Tilters 
Unique Owner AUM Size BM OP INV 
Year Best Ideas Fraction Fraction Decile Decile Decile Decile
1983 60 2.6% 10% 7.0 3.5 6.4 7.1 
1985 67 2.3% 11% 7.0 3.0 6.2 6.7 
1990 98 1.8% 12% 7.0 2.8 6.6 7.4 
1995 155 1.2% 12% 7.2 2.7 6.3 6.8 
2000 223 0.8% 11% 8.1 2.3 5.3 7.1 
2005 183 0.7% 9% 7.5 3.4 5.4 6.2 
2010 170 0.7% 11% 8.0 3.8 6.1 6.5 
2015 155 0.9% 10% 7.8 3.4 5.6 6.3 
2018 168 0.6% 10% 8.0 3.8 6.1 6.7 
PANEL C: Top Five Best Ideas Among Top 25% Active Tilters 
Unique Owner AUM Size BM OP INV 
Year Best Ideas Fraction Fraction Decile Decile Decile Decile
1983 264 1.3% 23% 6.8 3.7 6.2 6.6 
1985 292 1.2% 26% 7.0 3.5 6.3 6.4 
1990 382 1.1% 28% 6.7 3.4 6.3 6.8 
1995 566 1.0% 25% 6.8 3.6 5.9 6.4 
2000 682 1.1% 26% 7.4 2.9 5.4 6.6 
2005 645 0.8% 24% 6.8 3.8 5.4 6.3 
2010 586 0.9% 27% 7.2 4.2 5.8 6.4 
2015 605 1.1% 26% 7.2 3.8 5.9 6.1 
2018 606 0.8% 28% 7.5 4.0 5.9 6.4 
 
38 
Table II: Performance of Best Ideas 
This table reports coefficients from monthly six-factor regressions, 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ ൌ 𝑎଺ ൅ 𝑏𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ ൅ 𝑠𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ ൅ ℎ𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ ൅
𝑟𝑅𝑊𝑀௧ ൅ 𝑐𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ ൅ 𝑚𝑈𝑀𝐷௧ ൅ 𝜀௣,௧, where 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ is either 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ the equal-weight excess return on the portfolio 
of the stocks that include the best idea of each active manager; 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ the equal-weight DGTW-adjusted 
return on the best idea portfolio; or 𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑௣,௧, the return on an equal-weight long-short portfolio that is long 
a dollar in each manager’s best idea and short a dollar in each manager’s investment-weight portfolio of the 
rest of their ideas, where the rest is defined as positions outside each manager’s top ten ideas. The best idea 
is determined within each fund as the stock with the maximum value of one of two possible information ratio 
estimates: 1) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯ or 2) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜௏௧൯, where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio 
weight in stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market portfolio, λ௜௏௧ is the value-weight position of 
stock i in manager f’s portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent forecast of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic 
volatility. Explanatory variables are from Ken French’s website. We also report intercept estimates, 𝛼ହ, when 
UMD is excluded from the regression. As a benchmark, Panel B shows the results when we instead form 
investment-weight portfolios based on all of the ideas of managers instead of just their best ideas. In both 
panels, we restrict the analysis to those managers whose maximum position-level information ratio is in the 
top 25% of all corresponding information ratios at the time. We report t-statistics in parentheses and denote 
regression intercepts (Mean, 𝛼ହ, and 𝛼଺) that are statistically significant at the 5% level in bold font. The 
sample period for the dependent variables is January 1983-March 2019. 
PANEL A: Performance of Best Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.97% 0.47% 0.37% 1.12 0.15 -0.26 -0.35 -0.23 0.19 89% 
(3.19) (4.09) (3.45) (41.87) (4.02) (-5.10) (-6.99) (-3.11) (8.11) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 1.01% 0.43% 0.35% 1.13 0.43 -0.19 -0.31 -0.19 0.16 90% 
 (3.23) (3.89) (3.29) (42.65) (11.18) (-3.82) (-6.33) (-2.68) (6.95) 
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.21% 0.33% 0.26% 0.07 0.01 -0.13 -0.24 -0.13 0.15 38% 
(2.05) (3.56) (2.91) (3.31) (0.36) (-3.08) (-6.06) (-2.13) (7.44) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.25% 0.35% 0.29% 0.08 0.07 -0.13 -0.24 -0.12 0.13 39% 
 (2.43) (3.88) (3.29) (3.52) (2.32) (-3.10) (-5.84) (-1.95) (6.72) 
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଵ,௧ 0.21% 0.39% 0.26% 0.05 -0.05 -0.11 -0.32 -0.17 0.25 43% 
(1.79) (3.52) (2.71) (2.10) (-1.34) (-2.35) (-7.31) (-2.54) (11.54)
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଶ,௧ 0.24% 0.34% 0.23% 0.07 0.25 -0.07 -0.30 -0.14 0.21 52% 
 (1.95) (3.39) (2.60) (3.13) (7.55) (-1.56) (-7.21) (-2.23) (10.34) 
 
PANEL B: Benchmark - Performance of All Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟௔௟௟,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.65% 0.04% 0.06% 0.93 0.15 -0.11 -0.02 -0.06 -0.03 97% 
 (3.09) (1.12) (1.55) (102.42) (11.26) (-6.40) (-1.13) (-2.23) (-3.48) 
39 
Table III: Performance of Top Three and Top Five Best Ideas 
This table reports coefficients from monthly six-factor regressions, 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ ൌ 𝑎଺ ൅ 𝑏𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ ൅ 𝑠𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ ൅ ℎ𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ ൅
𝑟𝑅𝑊𝑀௧ ൅ 𝑐𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ ൅ 𝑚𝑈𝑀𝐷௧ ൅ 𝜀௣,௧, where 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ is either 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ the equal-weight excess return on the portfolio 
of the stocks that include the top-three (Panel A) or top-five (Panel B) best ideas of each active manager; 
𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ the equal-weight DGTW-adjusted return on that best ideas portfolio; or 𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑௣,௧, the return 
on an equal-weight long-short portfolio that is long a dollar in a portfolio of the top-three (Panel A) or topfive (Panel B) best ideas and short a dollar in each manager’s investment-weight portfolio of the rest of their 
ideas, where the rest is defined as positions outside each manager’s top ten ideas. Best ideas are determined 
within each fund as the stock with the highest values of one of two possible information ratio estimates: 1) 
𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯ or 2) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜௏௧൯, where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio weight in stock 
i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market portfolio, λ௜௏௧ is the value-weight position of stock i in 
manager f’s portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent forecast of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic volatility. 
Explanatory variables are from Ken French’s website. We also report intercept estimates, 𝛼ହ, when UMD is 
excluded from the regression. We restrict the analysis to those managers whose maximum alpha is in the top 
25% of all maximum alphas at the time. We report t-statistics in parentheses and denote regression intercepts 
(Mean, 𝛼ହ, and 𝛼଺) that are statistically significant at the 5% level in bold font. The sample period for the 
dependent variables is January 1983-March 2019. 
PANEL A: Best Three Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.89% 0.33% 0.26% 1.08 0.16 -0.22 -0.26 -0.20 0.14 93% 
(3.30) (4.18) (3.45) (58.28) (5.84) (-6.17) (-7.42) (-3.96) (8.46) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.92% 0.29% 0.23% 1.10 0.39 -0.16 -0.20 -0.14 0.10 93% 
 (3.33) (3.65) (3.03) (57.79) (14.29) (-4.57) (-5.64) (-2.72) (6.04) 
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.14% 0.22% 0.17% 0.05 0.03 -0.10 -0.18 -0.13 0.10 43% 
(1.92) (3.65) (2.91) (3.62) (1.46) (-3.62) (-6.49) (-3.18) (7.89) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.17% 0.23% 0.18% 0.06 0.07 -0.11 -0.15 -0.09 0.08 42% 
 (2.36) (3.77) (3.13) (4.16) (3.29) (-3.95) (-5.51) (-2.24) (6.41) 
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଵ,௧ 0.12% 0.28% 0.16% 0.02 -0.04 -0.08 -0.26 -0.16 0.22 51% 
(1.43) (3.47) (2.43) (1.37) (-1.92) (-2.46) (-8.54) (-3.63) (14.91)
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଶ,௧ 0.15% 0.22% 0.13% 0.05 0.24 -0.04 -0.21 -0.10 0.16 58% 
 (1.72) (3.21) (2.23) (3.17) (11.11) (-1.55) (-7.38) (-2.42) (11.78) 
 
PANEL B: Best Five Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.86% 0.28% 0.22% 1.07 0.16 -0.21 -0.20 -0.17 0.10 95% 
(3.31) (4.16) (3.49) (66.74) (6.77) (-6.90) (-6.68) (-3.85) (7.12) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.90% 0.25% 0.21% 1.09 0.37 -0.15 -0.16 -0.12 0.07 94% 
 (3.38) (3.67) (3.16) (64.31) (15.31) (-4.66) (-4.96) (-2.52) (4.74) 
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.12% 0.18% 0.14% 0.05 0.03 -0.10 -0.13 -0.11 0.08 44% 
(1.92) (3.61) (2.93) (3.96) (1.77) (-4.45) (-5.78) (-3.18) (6.98) 
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.16% 0.20% 0.17% 0.06 0.06 -0.10 -0.12 -0.07 0.06 41% 
 (2.60) (3.94) (3.37) (4.58) (3.50) (-4.12) (-5.14) (-2.09) (5.51) 
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଵ,௧ 0.10% 0.24% 0.14% 0.01 -0.06 -0.08 -0.22 -0.14 0.19 52% 
(1.38) (3.52) (2.48) (0.80) (-2.81) (-2.94) (-8.35) (-3.67) (15.46)
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଶ,௧ 0.14% 0.19% 0.12% 0.04 0.24 -0.03 -0.17 -0.07 0.13 59% 
 (1.94) (3.29) (2.34) (3.30) (13.12) (-1.14) (-6.81) (-1.96) (11.33) 
40 
Table IV: Performance of Best Ideas Based on Stock and Fund Characteristics 
This table reports the intercept from monthly six-factor regressions, 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ ൌ 𝑎଺ ൅ 𝑏𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ ൅ 𝑠𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ ൅ ℎ𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ ൅
𝑟𝑅𝑊𝑀௧ ൅ 𝑐𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ ൅ 𝑚𝑈𝑀𝐷௧ ൅ 𝜀௣,௧, where 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ is either 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ the equal-weight excess return on the portfolio 
of the stocks that represent the best idea of each active manager or the equal-weight DGTW-adjusted return 
on that best ideas portfolio. The best idea, p, is determined within each fund as the stock with the maximum 
value of the following information ratio estimate: 𝐼𝑅 ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯, where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio 
weight in stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent forecast 
of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic volatility. Explanatory variables are from Ken French’s website. We restrict 
the analysis to those managers whose maximum position-level information ratio is in the top 25% of all 
corresponding information ratios at the time. We report decompositions of the resulting 𝑎଺ estimates based on 
the following stock and fund characteristics — illiquidity (ILIQ) is the bid-ask spread; growth (GROWTH) is 
the market-to-book ratio; momentum (MOM) is the past 11-month return skipping the most recent month; 
alpha (ALPHA) is the fund’s Carhart alpha, using rolling windows of 36 months, composite (COMP) is a 
combination of the percentile rankings of the previous characteristics, and orthogonal composite (COMP-O) 
is the combination of the percentile rankings of those characteristics, after first being orthogonalized to each 
other. We report t-statistics in parentheses and denote regression intercepts (𝛼଺ ) that are statistically 
significant at the 5% level in bold font. Differences across the High and Low portfolios are shaded. The sample 
period for the dependent variables is January 1983-March 2019. 
Performance of Best Ideas Conditional on Ex Ante Stock/Fund Characteristics 
 ILIQ GROWTH MOM ALPHA COMP COMP-O 
𝑟௅ைௐ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.02% -0.04% -0.04% 0.13% -0.05% -0.08% 
(0.24) (-0.40) (-0.41) (0.90) (-0.66) (-0.68) 
𝑟ொ஽,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.30% 0.13% 0.27% 0.37% 0.12% 0.23% 
(2.20) (1.13) (2.37) (2.42) (1.04) (1.52) 
𝑟ுூீு,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.61% 0.82% 0.72% 0.50% 0.86% 0.82% 
 (2.89) (4.05) (3.37) (3.17) (3.90) (4.07) 
𝑟ுூீு െ 𝑟௅ைௐ 0.59% 0.86% 0.76% 0.38% 0.91% 0.90% 
 (2.56) (3.94) (3.21) (2.23) (3.92) (3.93) 
𝑟௅ைௐ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.00% -0.05% -0.06% 0.05% -0.05% -0.03% 
 (0.05) (-0.72) (-0.73) (0.39) (-0.78) (-0.23) 
𝑟ொ஽,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.16% 0.09% 0.19% 0.21% 0.02% 0.10% 
 (1.39) (0.86) (2.00) (1.57) (0.26) (0.68) 
𝑟ுூீு,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.48% 0.59% 0.52% 0.37% 0.65% 0.55% 
(2.64) (3.48) (2.82) (2.65) (3.50) (2.83) 
𝑟ுூீு஽ீ்ௐ െ 𝑟௅ைௐ஽ீ்ௐ 0.47% 0.64% 0.58% 0.32% 0.70% 0.58% 
(2.50) (3.53) (2.87) (2.13) (3.58) (2.62) 
41 
Table V: Performance of Best Ideas in Hedge Funds 
This table reports coefficients from monthly regressions of 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ ൌ 𝑎଺ ൅ 𝑏𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ ൅ 𝑠𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ ൅ ℎ𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ ൅ 𝑟𝑅𝑊𝑀௧ ൅
𝑐𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ ൅ 𝑚𝑈𝑀𝐷௧ ൅ 𝜀௣,௧, where 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ is either 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ the equal-weight excess return on the portfolio of the 
stocks that include the best idea of each active manager; 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ the equal-weight DGTW-adjusted 
return on the best ideas portfolio; or 𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑௣,௧, the return on an equal-weight long-short portfolio, long a dollar 
in each manager’s best idea and short a dollar in each manager’s investment-weight portfolio of the rest of 
their ideas, where the rest is defined as positions outside each manager’s top ten ideas. The best idea is 
determined within each fund as the stock with the maximum value of one of three possible measures: 1) 
𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯ , 2) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜௏௧൯ , or 3) α௜௙௧
௖௢௡௩௜௖௧௜௢௡ ൌ λ௜௙௧ where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s 
portfolio weight in stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market portfolio, λ௜௏௧ is the value weight of 
stock i in manager f’s portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent estimate of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic 
volatility. Explanatory variables are from Ken French’s website. We also report intercept estimates, 𝛼ହ, when 
UMD is excluded from the regression. As a benchmark, Panel B shows the results when we instead form 
portfolios based on all of the ideas of managers instead of just their best ideas. Panel C decomposes the results 
in Panel A as a function of fund size. In all three panels, we restrict the analysis to those managers whose 
maximum position-level information ratio is in the top 25% of all corresponding information ratios at the 
time. We report t-statistics in parentheses and denote regression intercepts (Mean, 𝛼ହ, and 𝛼଺) that are 
statistically significant at the 5% level in bold font. The sample period for the dependent variables is January 
1983-March 2019. 
PANEL A: Performance of Best Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.96% 0.31% 0.28% 1.02 0.34 0.08 -0.19 -0.11 0.07 87% 
(3.77) (3.21) (2.83) (41.89) (9.84) (1.71) (-4.21) (-1.65) (3.30)
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.96% 0.31% 0.28% 1.01 0.47 0.04 -0.22 -0.02 0.06 87% 
 (3.71) (3.11) (2.78) (40.24) (12.93) (0.84) (-4.53) (-0.27) (2.81)
𝑟ଷ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.97% 0.36% 0.32% 0.98 0.35 0.07 -0.16 -0.15 0.07 85% 
 (3.91) (3.51) (3.17) (38.17) (9.52) (1.37) (-3.40) (-2.16) (2.85) 
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.15% 0.22% 0.20% 0.01 0.02 0.00 -0.17 -0.07 0.05 11% 
(1.89) (2.78) (2.46) (0.57) (0.77) (0.03) (-4.53) (-1.27) (2.63)
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.20% 0.28% 0.25% 0.00 0.05 -0.04 -0.21 0.01 0.05 13% 
 (2.30) (3.23) (2.92) (-0.01) (1.71) (-0.96) (-5.04) (0.21) (2.59)
𝑟ଷ,௧ െ 𝑟஽ீ்ௐ,௧ 0.17% 0.22% 0.20% -0.01 0.04 0.01 -0.07 -0.08 0.04 4% 
(2.28) (2.82) (2.54) (-0.69) (1.42) (0.32) (-1.81) (-1.50) (2.28) 
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଵ,௧ 0.27% 0.38% 0.31% 0.02 -0.01 0.04 -0.23 -0.16 0.13 15% 
(2.65) (3.69) (3.11) (0.64) (-0.21) (0.76) (-4.82) (-2.36) (5.75)
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଶ,௧ 0.24% 0.31% 0.26% 0.00 0.14 -0.01 -0.20 -0.03 0.10 17% 
 (2.32) (3.06) (2.58) (0.18) (4.03) (-0.30) (-4.16) (-0.39) (4.40)
𝑠𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑ଷ,௧ 0.20% 0.32% 0.25% -0.03 -0.03 0.02 -0.13 -0.17 0.13 10% 
 (2.01) (2.97) (2.41) (-1.02) (-0.92) (0.36) (-2.63) (-2.40) (5.37) 
PANEL B: Benchmark - Performance of All Ideas 
 Mean 𝛼ହ 𝛼଺ RMRF SMB HML RMW CMA UMD R2
𝑟௔௟௟,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.55% -0.01% 0.00% 0.77 0.19 0.02 0.02 0.02 -0.01 96% 
(3.25) (-0.22) (-0.03) (81.09) (14.14) (1.26) (0.89) (0.90) (-1.59) 
 
42 
Table V: Performance of Best Ideas in Hedge Funds (continued) 
PANEL C: Performance of Best Ideas for Different Fund Size Groups 
   SMALL (F<100m) MED (100m<F<10bn) BIG (F>10bn) SMALL - BIG 
   a5 a6 a5 a6 a5 a6 a5 a6 
𝑟ଵ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.57% 0.58% 0.13% 0.12% -0.67% -0.68% 1.24% 1.26%
(2.38) (2.40) (1.32) (1.22) (-1.65) (-1.66) (2.56) (2.58)
𝑟ଶ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.61% 0.61% 0.27% 0.27% -0.90% -0.94% 1.51% 1.54%
 (1.84) (1.82) (2.30) (2.31) (-1.92) (-1.99) (2.61) (2.65)
𝑟ଷ,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ 0.70% 0.71% 0.22% 0.18% -0.63% -0.60% 1.33% 1.32%
 (2.35) (2.40) (1.72) (1.44) (-1.78) (-1.69) (2.98) (2.94)
43 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Overlap in Best Ideas. 
This figure displays the popularity of the stocks that we select as managers’ best ideas from 1983-
2018. Popularity is defined as the percentage of managers at any point in time that consider a 
particular stock their best idea. Best ideas are determined within each fund as the stock with the 
largest ex ante information ratio, 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯, where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio weight in 
stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent estimate 
of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic volatility. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018
1 Manager 2 Managers 3 Managers >5 Managers
44 
Figure 2: Measures to identify Best Ideas over time. 
This figure graphs the value of the two measures we use to identify the best idea of a portfolio for 
the median manager over the time period in question as well as their key components. Best ideas 
are determined within each fund as the stock with the maximum value of one of two possible 
information ratio measures: 1) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑡௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ or 2) 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢ ൌ 𝜎௜௧𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑡௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢, where 𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑡௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ ൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯
and 𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑡௜௙௧
௣௢௥௧௙௢௟௜௢ ൌ ൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜௏௧൯, λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio weight in stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i
in the market portfolio, λ௜௏௧ is the value weight of stock i in manager f’s portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the 
most-recent estimate of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic volatility. In the first panel, we graph the 
tilt component of these two measures, in the second panel we plot the information ratio measures, 
and in the third panel, we plot the implied alpha, where the information ratios are multiplied by 𝜎௜௧. 
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
10%
1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018
Tilt towards Best Ideas
Series1 Series2
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
2.5%
3.0%
1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018
Implied Information Ratio of Best Ideas
Series1 Series2
0.0%
0.2%
0.4%
0.6%
0.8%
1.0%
1.2%
1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018
Implied Alphas of Best Ideas
Series1 Series2
45 
Figure 3: Performance of Best Ideas. 
This figure graphs the monthly six-factor alpha of portfolios based on managers’'best idea, secondbest idea, down to their tenth-best idea. The rank of a manager’s ideas are determined by our 
information ratio measure 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑡௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧. 
-0.2%
-0.1%
0.0%
0.1%
0.2%
0.3%
0.4%
0.5%
0.6%
0.7%
0.8%
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Six-factor Alphas
46 
 
 
Figure 4: Buy-and-hold abnormal returns of Best Ideas. 
This figure graphs the risk-adjusted cumulative buy-and-hold abnormal returns of the best ideas 
portfolio as identified by our market alpha measures. All cumulative abnormal returns are adjusted 
using the Fama-French-Carhart six factor model 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ ൌ 𝑎଺ ൅ 𝑏𝑅𝑀𝑅𝐹௧ ൅ 𝑠𝑆𝑀𝐵௧ ൅ ℎ𝐻𝑀𝐿௧ ൅ 𝑟𝑅𝑊𝑀௧ ൅ 𝑐𝐶𝑀𝐴௧ ൅
𝑚𝑈𝑀𝐷௧ ൅ 𝜀௣,௧, where 𝑟௣,௧
௘௫௖௘௦௦ is 𝑟௣,௧ െ 𝑟௙,௧ the equal-weight excess return on the portfolio of the stocks that 
represent the best idea of each active manager. Best ideas are determined within each fund as the 
stock with the maximum value of the following information ratio measure, 𝐼𝑅௜௙௧
௠௔௥௞௘௧ ൌ 𝜎௜௧൫λ௜௙௧ െ λ௜ெ௧൯
where λ௜௙௧ is manager f’s portfolio weight in stock i, λ௜ெ௧ is the weight of stock i in the market 
portfolio, and 𝜎௜௧ is the most-recent estimate of a stock’s CAPM-idiosyncratic volatility. We 
restrict the analysis to those managers whose maximum position-level information ratio is in the 
top 25% of all maximum measure at that time. The sample period for the dependent variables is 
1983 to 2019 in Panel A and 1996-2019 in Panel B. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84 96 108 120
Cumulative Six-factor Alpha
Post-formation Month
Panel A: Full sample
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84 96 108 120
Cumulative Six-factor Alpha
Post-formation Month
Panel B: Second subsample
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Optimal Active Policies Under a Constant Active Allocation Rule. 
This figure shows the Sharpe ratios obtained from different allocations to the market (M), a best 
idea (X), and a second-best idea (Y). In particular, we consider the Sharpe ratio of portfolios where 
an investor allocates a fixed percentage to an active manager choosing a portfolio of X and Y and 
puts the remaining capital in M. The riskless rate is zero and the expected returns on the three 
assets in question are: 𝐸ሾ𝑅ெሿ ൌ 7%, 𝐸ሾ𝑅௑ሿ ൌ 2%, and 𝐸ሾ𝑅௒ሿ ൌ 1%. All three assets are uncorrelated 
and each has the same volatility. Each line on the graph shows the results for a different constraint 
on the total fraction of assets that are managed by the active manager (i.e. invested in either X or 
Y). The star on each line represents the myopic allocation by the active manager that maximizes 
simply his or her own-portfolio Sharpe ratio. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Sharpe Ratios of Equal-weight Portfolios of Active Managers. 
This figure shows the Sharpe ratio of equal-weight portfolios of N active managers, each of whom 
has one best idea, X, that he or she combines with the market portfolio. We assume each investment 
X has 4% annual alpha, unit beta, the market premium is 6%, the market’s annual volatility is 15%, 
X's volatility is 40%, the risk-free rate is zero, and that the unsystematic components of each 
manager's best idea are uncorrelated. The top line shows the Sharpe ratio that would result if 
managers followed the optimal policy. The lowest line shows the Sharpe ratio the investor will obtain 
if each manager instead mean-variance optimizes his own portfolio. The middle line gives the 
resulting Sharpe ratios if managers choose the portfolio that is best for the investor but with the 
constraint that they cannot sell the market short. 