What Drives Booms and Busts in Value?
John Y. Campbell, Stefano Giglio, and Christopher Polk1
First draft: March 2023
Abstract
Value investing delivers volatile returns, with large drawdowns both in periods of strong
stock market performance such as the technology boom of the late 1990s, and in stock
market downturns such as the global financial crisis of 2008 and the Covid-19 pandemic of
2020. This paper interprets the returns to the standard value strategy through the lens of an
intertemporal CAPM. In this model, the shocks that move value returns include shocks to
the expected cash flows of the aggregate stock market, shocks to the discount rates applied
to those cash flows, and shocks to the variance of aggregate market returns. We document
that these three shocks explain a large fraction (about 50%) of the quarterly returns to value
investing over the last 60 years. In addition, the paper distinguishes the intra-industry and
inter-industry components of the value strategy, and finds that average returns, ICAPM risk
exposures, and the explanatory power of ICAPM shocks for portfolio returns are higher for
the intra-industry component. Finally, we develop a methodology to perform the ICAPM
decomposition at the daily frequency, which helps us explain the daily fluctuations in value
returns during the Covid-19 pandemic period. We find that the ICAPM helps to explain the
return to intra-industry value during this period, whereas inter-industry value appears to be
driven in large part by industry-specific earning shocks attributable to the pandemic.
1Campbell: Department of Economics, Littauer Center, Harvard University, Cambridge MA 02138, and
NBER. Email john campbell@harvard.edu. Phone 617-496-6448. Giglio: Yale School of Management, 165
Whitney Ave, New Haven, CT 06520, CEPR, and NBER. Email stefano.giglio@yale.edu. Polk: Department
of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A 2AE, UK, and CEPR. Email c.polk@lse.ac.uk. We
thank Hongyu Wu for excellent research assistance.
1 Introduction
Value investors seek to buy stocks that are cheap in the sense that their market prices are
low relative to accounting measures of their value. This investment approach has a long
history predating modern finance theory (see for example Graham, Dodd, and Cottle 1934).
A value strategy can be implemented using various alternative valuation ratios such as the
dividend yield, earnings-price ratio, or book-market ratio, but since the influential work of
Fama and French (1992, 1993) academic research on value has primarily emphasized the
book-market ratio.2
If a value strategy uses an accounting measure of a stock’s value that captures its rationally expected future cash flows, discounted at a constant rate, then by the logic of Campbell
and Shiller (1988a), the corresponding valuation ratio should be a good proxy for the rationally expected long-run return on the stock. This insight implies that a value portfolio
should contain stocks with high average returns, either because they are risky stocks with
high equilibrium returns, or because they are stocks that have been underpriced by irrational
investors.
Whether value returns are high on average or not, they are very far from riskless. Figure 1
illustrates this by plotting the return to the standard Fama-French long-short value strategy,
HML, over the period 1963Q1–2022Q1. The raw quarterly log return to HML is smoothed
for readability using an exponentially weighted moving average with a half-life of two years.
The solid black line in the figure shows large swings in HML returns, with value booms in
the late 1970s, mid 1980s, and mid 2000s, and short but sharp value busts in the early 1970s,
2Early academic papers on value investing using the dividend yield as a valuation ratio include Litzenberger and Ramaswamy (1982) and Miller and Scholes (1982). Basu (1977, 1983) uses the earnings-price
ratio, and Stattman (1980) and Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985) use the book-market ratio. Goncalves
and Leonard (2023) propose an alternative way to estimate the fundamental value of a company, that may
obviate a potential deterioration of book equity as a measure of fundamental value.
1
the early 1980s, the early 1990s, the turn of the millennium, the global financial crisis of
2008-09, and—most striking of all—the Covid-19 pandemic of 2020-21.
This paper asks what factors drive such booms and busts in value. We make two
preliminary observations. First, value booms and busts do not line up with returns on the
aggregate stock market. Figure 1 illustrates this by plotting the log real return on the
CRSP value-weighted index, smoothed in the same way as the HML return, as a dashed red
line. The earlier value busts coincide with high aggregate stock returns, but value busts
in the global financial crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic coincide with sharp declines in the
aggregate market. Overall, there is little correlation between the two lines in Figure 1,
consistent with the fact that HML has a negative beta with the aggregate market that is
close to zero in absolute value.
Second, value booms and busts primarily result from returns to value within industries.
We create an intra-industry value strategy that holds stocks whose book-market ratios are
high relative to other stocks in the same industry.3 We regress HML onto the return of this
strategy and call the fitted value intra-industry HML, or HMLIntra, and the residual interindustry HML, or HMLInter. With this procedure, HML is the sum of the two components
and inter-industry HML picks up industry shocks that are orthogonal to intra-industry value
returns. Figure 2 plots the log returns to HML and its two components over the same
sample period and using the same smoothing procedure as Figure 1. The importance of
intra-industry HML, the dashed green line in the figure, is immediately visible. However,
many value busts do coincide with poor returns to inter-industry HML, the dash-dotted red
3We are not the first to decompose value into intra- and inter-industry components. Cohen, Polk, and
Vuolteenaho (2003) provide a variance decomposition of firm-level BE/ME and find “that the book-tomarket effect in returns is mostly an intra-industry effect.” Other papers include Cohen and Polk (1998)
(the first to study intra- and inter-industry value strategies), Lewellen (1999), and Asness, Porter, and
Stevens (2000). Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997) use Cohen and Polk’s (1998) adjustment in
their popular characteristic-based approach to performance evaluation. Industry-adjustment is widely-used
in practice; see, for example, Israel, Jiang, and Ross (2018), who argue that careful industry adjustment of
value characteristics is an example of “craftsmanship alpha” that skilled fund managers can provide.
2
line, despite the zero unconditional correlation (by construction) between intra-industry and
inter-industry HML.
If booms and busts in value are not explained by aggregate stock returns, are there other
aggregate shocks that do explain them? In this paper we argue that three factors derived
from data on the aggregate stock market go a long way to explain the volatile history of
value returns, both to HML itself and particularly to its intra-industry component.
We measure the aggregate shocks that are relevant for value investors using an intertemporal CAPM (Merton 1973). Specifically, we follow Campbell and Vuolteenaho (CV 2004)
in distinguishing market cash-flow news (upward revisions in rationally expected market
dividends, discounted to the infinite future at a constant rate) and negative discount-rate
news (downward revisions in rationally expected market returns, again discounted to the infinite future at a constant rate). The total return on the market equals cash-flow news plus
negative discount-rate news, and so a stock’s covariance with the market can be expressed
as its covariance with cash-flow news plus its covariance with negative discount-rate news.
Dividing these covariances by the variance of the return on the market, a stock’s beta with
the market can be written as the sum of its cash-flow and discount-rate betas.
In a homoskedastic setting, CV show that conservative long-term investors charge a
different risk price for exposure to these two types of aggregate shocks, with cash-flow beta
(“bad beta”) commanding a higher price than discount-rate beta (“good beta”). CV further
show that value stocks have higher cash-flow betas but lower discount-rate betas and overall
market betas than growth stocks. This pattern may reflect the lower duration of value
stocks, whose cash flows are concentrated in the near term, relative to growth stocks.4
According to the CV model, value stocks are likely to underperform in a period when the
aggregate market is driven down by bad cash flow news, but also in a period when the
4A recent literature stresses this duration effect. See Dechow, Sloan, and Soliman (2004), Lettau and
Wachter (2007), Weber (2018), and Gormsen and Lazarus (2021).
3
market is driven up by declining discount rates. There need be no strong unconditional
relationship between value returns and aggregate stock returns since both types of shocks
affect the aggregate market.
Campbell, Giglio, Polk, and Turley (CGPT 2018) extend the CV model to include
shocks to the variance of stock returns. Using a model in which the market return and
all predictor variables share a common process for volatility, CGPT show that long-run
market volatility shocks (upward revisions in the rationally expected value of future market
return variances, discounted to the infinite future at a constant rate) are relevant to longterm investors because they alter the quality of investment opportunities. Conservative
long-term investors charge a risk price for exposure to volatility shocks that depends on the
volatility process and risk aversion, but not on any other preference parameters. CGPT
find that value stocks have lower volatility betas than growth stocks, perhaps reflecting the
optionality of growth-company investment opportunities that increases the prices of growth
stocks in an uncertain environment. According to the CGPT model, a period with unusual
upward shocks to volatility is likely to be a period in which value underperforms.
In this paper, we estimate the VAR model specified by CGPT, using quarterly data
from 1926Q3 through 2022Q1. The model generates quarterly news shocks similar to those
estimated in CV and CGPT.5
In the period since 1963Q3 where the return to value is
anomalously high relative to its market beta (the “modern period” studied by CV and
CGPT), we estimate the betas of HML and its intra-industry and inter-industry components
with the three shocks to cash flows, discount rates, and volatility. We find similar betas
for HML to those reported in prior research. A novel result is that intra-industry HML
5Our approach uses the CGPT unrestricted VAR to measure the three shocks driving value returns. In
contrast, the structured approach of Campbell, Giglio, and Polk (2013) imposes the cross-sectional restrictions of the two-beta CV ICAPM when estimating the time-series VAR to sharpen equity premium forecasts
and the resulting decomposition of unexpected market returns into discount-rate and cash-flow news. Given
our focus on the time-series decomposition of returns (as opposed to the cross-sectional fit of the model), in
this paper we estimate the VAR from the time-series information alone, as in CGPT.
4
has a considerably higher cash-flow beta and considerably lower volatility beta than interindustry HML. Since cash-flow and volatility betas are highly compensated in the ICAPM,
this pattern helps to explain the higher average return to intra-industry HML than to interindustry HML.
Over our full sample period since 1963Q3, the three ICAPM shocks explain almost half
(48%) of the variance of HML, 40% of the variance of intra-industry HML, but only 16%
of the variance of inter-industry HML. In a more recent sample period starting in 1990,
the explanatory power of the ICAPM is again 48% for HML and somewhat higher for intraindustry HML at 45%. The ICAPM fit improves for inter-industry HML in this period but
remains modest at 26%. These statistics suggest that the pattern of ICAPM shocks has the
potential to explain recent value returns and particularly the returns to intra-industry HML.
Our ICAPM shocks don’t just provide a statistical fit to HML’s fluctuations: they also
help us understand the main economic drivers of HML returns. Our analysis identifies what
news was most important at different times, highlighting that different periods see different
mixes of the news shocks moving HML. There are periods when different news shocks have
offsetting effects on HML (for example the 1970s, with cash-flow news offsetting discount
rate news and variance news), and other periods when all news terms move HML in the
same direction (for example the technology boom in the late 1990s).
One particularly interesting event is the Covid-19 pandemic. During the pandemic, all
three types of news arrived at a rapid pace and market returns were unusually volatile.
These facts meant that major shocks occurred at a higher frequency than quarterly. To
understand the returns to value in 2020, we adapt the CGPT framework and estimate a daily
VAR. We start our sample period at the beginning of 1990 and end at the end of 2022Q1.
Focusing on this sub-period allows us to include the VIX as an additional state variable
relevant for predicting future volatility. We show that the daily version of the ICAPM gives
5
a good account of HML and intra-industry HML returns throughout this sub-period and
specifically in 2020. The high-frequency variation of returns in 2020 is primarily driven by
cash-flow news, because volatility and discount-rate news had largely offsetting effects on
HML and intra-industry HML.
While the ICAPM helps us to understand the returns to intra-industry HML, it has
much lower explanatory power for inter-industry HML. To gain some insight into value
returns across industries, we measure earnings growth shocks to value industries relative to
growth industries. We show that the Covid-19 pandemic particularly hurt the earnings of
value industries, which tend to be physical businesses, relative to growth industries. This
sectoral shock, rather than an aggregate shock, is the main explanation for the drawdown of
inter-industry HML in 2020.
We conclude this introduction with a caveat. Our paper is about the time-series variability of value returns and not about gradual shifts in the average return to value. Many
commentators have noted that the average return to HML has been lower in recent decades,
and particularly since the global financial crisis in 2008, than it was in the earlier part of
our sample period. This fact is clearly visible in Figure 1, and Figure 2 shows that it primarily reflects a lower average return to intra-industry value. It is not clear whether this
phenomenon reflects a structural shift or simply a sequence of unfavorable shocks to value
stocks, and we do not seek to resolve this issue here.6
The organization of the paper is as follows. Section 2 sets up a quarterly VAR model and
explains how we estimate the three aggregate ICAPM shocks to market cash flows, market
discount rates, and market variance. Section 3 estimates the betas of HML and its two
6For example, Fama and French (2020) are unable to reject the hypothesis that the value premium is the
same in both halves of the July 1963 - June 2019 sample. However, if they forecast the value premium using
Cohen, Polk, and Vuolteenaho’s (2003) value spread, they do find some evidence of a second-half decline in
the expected value premium.
6
components with these three shocks, and studies the time-series evolution of the ICAPMpredicted returns to HML, intra-industry HML, and inter-industry HML at a quarterly
frequency. Section 4 sets up a daily model and reestimates the ICAPM shocks at a daily
frequency. The daily ICAPM is then applied to understand the returns to HML and its two
components during the Covid-19 pandemic. Section 5 studies the cross-sectional pattern
of industry earnings shocks in 2020 and argues that this pattern contributed to the poor
performance of inter-industry HML at that time. Section 6 concludes. An online appendix
(Campbell, Giglio, and Polk 2023) provides additional supporting evidence.
2 A Quarterly VAR Model for Aggregate Stock Returns and Volatility
2.1 News terms and the dynamics of the economy
In this paper, we build on CGPT (2018) to describe the dynamics of the economy. Like
them, we assume that the economy is well described by the following first-order vector
autoregression (VAR):
xt+1 = ¯x + Γ(xt − ¯x) + σtut+1, (1)
where xt+1 is an n × 1 vector of state variables which includes the market return rt as its
first element, ¯x and Γ are an n × 1 vector and an n × n matrix of constant parameters, and
ut+1 is a vector of shocks to the state variables normalized so that its first element has unit
variance. As in CGPT, we assume that ut+1 has a constant variance-covariance matrix Σ,
with element Σ11 = 1, and include σ
2
t
, the variance of returns, in the state vector as the
second element. We define n × 1 vectors e1 and e2, all of whose elements are zero except for
a unit first element in e1 and a unit second element in e2. Finally, whereas ut+1 refers to the
7
scaled VAR innovations (i.e., normalized by σt), we refer to ηt+1 as the raw, or unscaled,
VAR innovations: ηt+1 = σtut+1.
CGPT derive the first-order conditions of a long-term investor with Epstein-Zin utility
that is holding the market in equilibrium. The paper shows that equilibrium pricing from
these first order conditions (i.e., the stochastic discount factor associated with this investor’s
Euler equation) involves three priced shocks: to (aggregate) cash flow news, discount rates,
and variance. These news terms can be expressed as a function of the VAR parameters:
NDR,t+1 = e
′
1ρΓ(I − ρΓ)
−1
| {z }
λDR
ηt+1, (2)
NCF,t+1 =
